Let's talk about area. Now the official SAT gives you a formula chart with most of the area formulas laid out for you. Now all the formulas related to circles, spheres, and triangles should be memorized. However, we strongly recommend that all of the other formulas be understood at a conceptual level, meaning that you understand how to come up with these formulas even if you forget the exact formula. This is because understanding concepts at a foundational level helps build upon future knowledge.
For example, once we introduce the concept of how the volume formula comes to be. So let's start. The area of a rectangle is taking sticks of width and putting them next to each other until they form the whole rectangle. So imagine we had a rectangle and we had width and then we had length. Now in order to get the area of the rectangle, we just keep putting infinite width sticks next to each other until we fill up the whole rectangle's area.
And actually, they're not infinite. It is length amount of sticks. So in more concise mathematical terms, the area is simply taking sticks that are width long and putting length amount of them next to each other. Hence, the area equals length times width. There are length amount of width long sticks.
Now for a square, since all of the sides are the same, the SAT will often only give you one side to calculate everything. Because for a square, it is simply this length times this length. So if a question gives you that the side length of a square is 4, then the area just equals to 4 times 4, which gives you 16.
Now let's practice. What is the area in square inches of a rectangle with a length of 9 inches and a width of 4 inches? Okay, so we know the area of a rectangle equals taking width length of sticks length amount of times. So this is width times length. So in this question, the length is 9 and the width is 4. So area equals 9 times 4. Area therefore equals 36. And that is C.
And that is C. Now let's practice another question about squares. The side length of a square is 42 centimeters. What is the area of the square? Okay, so we know the area of the square is just the side length multiplied by itself. Because the area of the square equals side length squared or side length times side length. Therefore, the area equals 42 times 42. Putting this into your calculator, we get 1764.
Now let's practice a medium question. What is the length of one side of a square that has the same area as a circle with radius 3? Okay, so this question is asking us about area and saying that the area of this circle is the same as the area of this square. So what are the two formulas? Well, the area of a square is side length squared. And the area of a circle is pi r squared. This formula should be memorized.
So let's set these equal to each other and plug in what we know to find out what s is equal to. So let's set these equal to each other and plug in what we know to find out what s is equal to.
So s squared equals pi 3 squared. Now squaring this we get s squared equals pi 3 squared.
So s squared equals pi 3 squared. Now squaring this we get s squared equals pi 3 squared. So let's set these equal to each other and plug in what we know to find out what s is equal to. So s squared equals pi 3 squared.
So s squared equals pi 3 squared. Now squaring this we get s squared equals 9 pi. Taking the square root of both sides, we get s equals to square root of 9 times pi.
Now taking a look inside of this square root, we know that 9 equals to 3 times 3. So we can rewrite this inside as 3 times 3 pi.
And because of this we are able to move the 3 to the outside because the square root of 9 is just equal to 3. So 3 times pi equals s. Therefore s equals 3 times square root of pi.
Now let's practice another medium question. The figure shows the length in inches of two sides of a right triangle. What is the area of the triangle in square inches?
Okay, so this is another formula that you need to memorize. The area of a triangle simply equals one half base times height.
This can also be thought of as width times length. But because it's a triangle we have a height and we have a base.
Okay, so let's solve this question. Let's plug in what we know and let's get our answer.
So we know that the height here equals 4 and we know the base here equals 7. So let's plug everything in. Area equals one half. Base is 7. Height is 4.
Now one half of 4 is 2. So area equals 7 times 2. So area equals 14.
Let's talk even deeper about area. Now in order for us to move on to the hard questions for area, we first must learn distance formula.
Distance formula is the formula we use when two points sit on a coordinate plane and we are asked about the distance between them.
The distance between them is simply the length of the straight line that connects those two points on a coordinate plane.
So mathematically this looks like this. The distance formula equals square root of x2 minus x1 squared plus y2 minus y1 squared.
So let's practice. Let's do this easier example first. So we can label this as x1 comma y1. And let's label this one as x2 comma y2.
Now it doesn't matter which point we label as x1 y1 and x2 y2. What matters is that the same point corresponds with the ones and the same point corresponds with the two.
So this can be x2 y2. This could be x1 y1. So let's plug this into the formula and let's solve for the distance.
Well before we even do that, because this one's easy, we already know that the distance would be 3.
Because this point simply looks like this. 0 comma 5 and 0 comma 2. And we know that these two points are just 3 units away.
So let's use the distance formula to prove that. So the square root of x2 minus x1. So x2 is 0 minus x1 is 0 squared.
So x2 plus, remember there's a plus sign in the middle, but then minus signs in the parentheses, plus y2, which is 2, minus y1, which is 5. And then squared.
So simplifying this down, 0 minus 0 squared is 0. 2 minus 5 is negative 3 squared. So this is equal to square root of 9, which is equal to 3.
So the distance formula does indeed prove the same thing that we already know. Now let's take a look at this example.
Well with this example, if we were to draw this out, 4 comma 3 is right here. 5 comma 2 is right here.
Now the distance is more of a slant. So we're not just easily able to see, okay, this distance might be 2 or this distance might be 3.
Because it may not be so pretty. So let's once again do this problem. So let's label this one as x1, y1.
And let's label this second point as x2, y2. Now let's solve. So let's take the square root of x2 minus x1. So 5 minus 4 squared plus y2 minus y1, which is 2 minus 3 squared.
So we get the square root of 5 minus 4 is 1 squared plus 2 minus 3 is negative 1 squared.
So after squaring these, we get square root of 1 plus 1, which is 2. So our answer and the distance between these two points is square root of 2.
Notice how this isn't as pretty. The distance between two points doesn't always have to be 3 or 4 or a whole number. It can be rational.
Now let's practice a hard question for area. The line segment shown in the xy plane. Now let's practice a hard question for area using the distance formula.
The line segment shown in the xy plane represents one of the legs of a right triangle. The line segment begins at the point negative 2 comma 3 and ends at the point 4 comma 7.
The area of this triangle is 24 times root of the square units. What is the length of the other leg of this triangle?
Okay, so remember what is the area of a triangle? The area equals base times height divided by 2 or 1/2 base times height.
Now in a right triangle, the two legs are the base and the height. So we know one of the lengths of the right triangle. Well, we could find it. We don't know it yet. We're given the two points. We know that the length of it is simply the distance between the two. So looking at this question, we know the area of this right triangle.
We know the area of this right triangle. We will be able to solve one of the lengths of the legs. Then all we will be missing is the other length. So let's start solving. So in order to find the distance between the two points, we must use the distance formula. So let's label this as point number 2 and label this as point number 1. So remember, distance formula is the distance formula.
So remember, distance formula is x2 minus x1, which is 4 minus, notice here, negative 2 squared plus y2 minus y1. So 7 minus 3 squared. Now let's evaluate. And be very careful about these negative signs because it's very easy to make a small mistake here. 4 minus negative 2 is 4 plus 2. So 6 squared plus 7 minus 3 is 4.
So 4 squared. Notice how I keep the parentheses. In case this is a negative, we know that it's not a negative on the outside. So 6 squared equals 36 plus 4 squared equals 16. So we get the square root of 36 plus 16, which equals to the square root of 52.
Now let's simplify this even more. So we know that 52 is equal to 4 times 13. And because there's a screw in the outside, the square root of 4 comes out very clean. It comes out as a 2. So we can take out the 2 and get 2 times the square root of 13. Now let's plug in what we know into the area formula. So area equals base times height over 2. Area equals 2 root 13.
root 13 height over 2. We know the area equals 24 root 13. So 24 root 13 equals 2 root 13 times h, or the other leg, divided by 2. So let's multiply this 2 over first, we get 48 root 13 equals 2 root 13 times h. Now dividing both sides by 2 times root 13, these 13's cancel out.
So the root 13's cancel out, and then 48 divided by 2 is 24. So 24 equals h. So the missing leg is equal to 24. Now let's practice another hard question. Moving from left to right, the points have the following coordinates. What is the area and square units of the triangle formed by connecting the three points shown? Okay, so this question is a little weirder. So our first instinct is, okay, area equals one half base times height. Well, there's only
applies if we know that this is a right triangle, we can find the distance between the two legs. Well, is this a right triangle? Drawing it out, we see approximately it could be a right triangle, but it also could just not be. It is hard to tell for sure, and we cannot just assume that this is a right triangle. So because this isn't a right triangle, it is not so easy to find the base and the height. Because there must be a right angle in between the base and the height. So is there
any other way for us to do this question? There is actually, we can actually imagine that there is a rectangle sitting around these points. And then with this rectangle, we now see that because this question asks us what is the inside area, what we could do, we can find the total area of this whole rectangle, and then subtract this white space right here. So this triangle right here, this triangle right here, and this triangle right here. Because we drew a rectangle,
this is a right angle, this is a right angle, and this is also a right angle. So we know the base and the height of these three triangles. So let's solve this. So the area of this total rectangle, this is 5, this is negative 2. So 5 minus negative 2 equals 7. So the distance between these two is 7. Now the distance from this point to this point is from negative 2 to 6. So the distance between that is 8. So the area of the rectangle itself is
8 times 7 equals 56. Now what we need to do is find the area of each of the individual triangles and subtract from this 56. So let's start with this big one right here. So we know that this length is 7, and then over here, because we go from negative 2 over to 5. So this is also 7. So 7 and 7. So the area of this first triangle, triangle number 1, area equals 7 times 7 over 2. Make sure that you know the area of a triangle by heart.
This equals 49 over 2. So this equals 49 over 2. Okay, awesome. Now let's calculate the second triangle. So this one, we go from this point down here, negative 2, up until 4. So this length is 6. And this length down here is 1. So area equals 6 times 1 divided by 2, which equals 3. Now the third triangle, let's do this one. Area equals from negative 2 over to 6. This is 8. And then
it has a height of 1. So 8 times 1 divided by 2 equals 4. So now that we know the areas of all three triangles and the area of the big rectangle, let's subtract. We take 56 minus 3 minus 4 minus 49 over 2. Let's solve the easier ones first. 56 minus 3 minus 4 equals 49. Minus 49 over 2. Now 49 minus 49 over 2 gives us
49/2. So our answer is 49/2.
