Let's talk about advanced math. So first we're going to cover some core strategies for you to
keep in mind as you tackle SAT math questions. For math, first read the entire passage in its
entirety. Then second, take a glance at the answer choices and look for patterns. Lastly,
solve the question. Now why do we tell you to first, after reading the passage, take a glance
at the answer choices? This is because sometimes the question may sound super complex and then to
solve it you're thinking oh my gosh there's so many steps but the answer choices actually just require
you to manipulate the question just a little bit. Maybe put it into a different form and that will
be your answer. So by taking a glance at the answer choices and looking for similarities or tricks or
mathematical patterns in order to solve it more efficiently then you realize oh I'll save way more
time and the SAT isn't actually testing me on x thing it is testing me on y. Now next there is no
special trick or time saving method for reading the passage. What this means is that you should
absolutely not skip or skim any parts of the passage because all parts of the passage are actually
trying to give you information that's pretty valuable in solving the question. Next and this is super
important I'm sure you guys have heard this all the time in school but always skip questions that you
feel unsure about and prioritize the ones that you are confident in first. Big emphasis on confident in
first because let's say that you are not confident in question five but the questions afterwards if you
spent so much time on question five and then you add to six seven to eight you find out oh my gosh I
could have done six seven to eight in so much less time. Let's say you did spend too much time on the
questions you're unconfident in you actually will end up having to guess on questions that you were
confident in. So always make sure that you skip the questions that you feel unsure prioritize the ones that
you're confident in. Next Desmos is absolutely your best friend just like how when you do math with the
calculator it speeds up your process versus having to do long division or exponents by hand you should
absolutely learn how to abuse Desmos. Next check your answers mathematically as well as logically what
this means is that you should always plug your answer choices back in. Now when you're going through the
SAT the first thing you actually want to do is make it through all the questions before you actually go
back to check because in the first place you might as well get as many questions that you can write
and then try to optimize and get the questions that you maybe felt a little bit more unsure about
or the questions that you flagged and check those make sure you got those right to maximize your score.
Now next if you go to a question and you don't know how to solve it which is actually pretty common
because it ends up happening we recommend that you work backwards and try your best to plug answers
into the question. We like to call this brute forcing the question. So this means if you don't know the
mathematical concept ways to try to solve it then you should try to do anything possible to find
similarities between the question and the answer choices. Plug answers in whenever you can and find
which one answer choice best aligns with the question. Next when you are reading through the word problems
make sure you highlight information that is crucial in these word problems and as you read them write down information that you're given and write what you need to find.
By doing this this actually makes it easier for you to see okay I have this information right here and then this information I'm looking for blah blah blah over here.
And by writing this out you can actually see similarities in terms of okay I probably need to use this equation first and then use this equation next and this will get me towards my goal answer.
And it helps you visualize similarities versus just reading the answer or sorry reading the question and seeing just a whole bunch of text with a whole bunch of random numbers laid out.
Taking it and putting in a more logical flow makes it much easier for your brain to comprehend.
Next before you actually get your final answer this final bit make sure that you reread what the question is asking for.
Because often times you may be solving for x in your calculations but the question is actually asking you for x times y.
And so if you were to pick x because the SAT knows that normal people just saw for x they will actually put the value of x as the answer choice like a.
But x y is actually c.
So make sure that you do reread what the question is asking for.
Next make sure that you use scratch paper.
So what this means is that just like how I told you earlier to write out information that you were given when you do need to draw something out or the question is describing a figure is super beneficial to you to make a very bad quick doodle to show a relationship or draw a shape or diagram whenever possible.
because this makes it so much easier to visualize information and then solve easier.
