STITCHED TRANSCRIPT
SECTION: Math
TOPIC: Advanced Math
SKILL: Nonlinear Equations in 2 Variables
Generated: 2026-07-13
Original transcript files were not modified.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - Advanced Math - Nonlinear Equations in 2 Variables - x in terms of vari.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about expressing x in terms of other variables.
Step one is to move the desired variable onto the numerator and then use reverse PEMDOS to isolate it onto one side.
So let's do an example.
Given the example y equals x squared plus 5, the question asks for us to express x in terms of y.
So the first thing we need to do is move the desired variable onto the numerator, which for us it already is.
So now we need to use reverse PEMDOS to isolate it by itself.
So let's follow the reverse PEMDOS, which goes from right to left.
So we first add and subtract.
So this 5 must move to the other side.
So subtracting 5 from both sides, we get y minus 5 equals x squared.
Now we move on to multiplication and division.
Well, there is none over here, so we don't have to worry about that.
Let's move on to exponents.
Now there is an exponent on this x squared.
So let's perform that.
So the square root of y minus 5 equals x.
And that is our solution.
X expressed in terms of y.
Let's do more practice.
The equation 5m minus 3n equals p relates the variables m and a p.
Which of the following correctly expresses m in terms of n and p.
So we are looking for what m equals to in terms of p and n.
So in this question, the first thing we need to do is keep m on one side by itself.
So let's follow reverse PEMDOS and let's move everything around.
So the first thing we need to do is add and subtract.
So I'm just going to write it out real quick just so that we can always refer to it.
So let's add and subtract first.
So in this case, there is a negative 3n on this side.
So let's add it to the other side.
5m equals p plus 3n.
Next, because we've done addition and subtraction, we need to do multiplication and division.
So in this case, we have 5 in front.
So we can divide both sides by 5.
m equals p plus 3n divided by 5.
And that gives us answer choice D.
Now let's practice the medium question.
The equation below relates distinct positive numbers x, y, z, and w.
Which equation correctly expresses y in terms of x, z, and w?
Okay, so in this case, we are solving for y.
So y equals something.
Let's draw our PEMDOS again just to make sure we are following the correct order of operations.
So step one, let's get the desired term into the numerator.
So we need to multiply both sides by y.
x, z equals w, y.
Now we need to follow PEMDOS to get y isolated by itself.
Well, the only thing that applies here is multiplication.
So we need to divide both sides by w in order to get y by itself.
So after dividing both sides by y, we get y equals x, z over w.
And that is answer choice A.
Now let's practice a hard question.
If u minus 5 equals 10 over t minus 3, what is t in terms of u?
Okay, well first of all, let's make sure we get the desired term onto the numerator.
So let's multiply both sides by t minus 3.
So u minus 5 times t minus 3 equals 10 over 1.
Now there's nothing there, so it doesn't even matter.
So now to get t by itself, we need to divide both sides by u minus 5
because there's no additional addition, no subtraction present here.
So let's do it.
t minus 3 equals 10 divided by u minus 5.
Now there is addition.
Well, this is actually happening in the parentheses.
t equals 10 over u minus 5 plus 3.
So now this is our answer right here.
However, when we look at the answer choices, we actually see that this answer isn't present.
So before we panic, we should actually think, is there any way that we can simplify this more
or combine like terms?
First reaction might be no.
But then we realize, oh, we can actually create this 3 to share the same denominator as this first fraction.
So how do we do that?
We can multiply the top and bottom by u minus 5.
Because remember, any number divided by itself is equal to 1.
So therefore, if we do this, we can get something with the same denominator, and then we can just combine the numerators.
So t equals 10 divided by u minus 5 plus, and then we can distribute this out, 3u minus 5 over u minus 5.
Now that the denominators are the same, we're able to just combine the numerators.
So after distributing this out, we get t equals 10 plus 3u minus 15 all over u minus 5.
So t equals negative 5 plus 3u over u minus 5.
And now let's look for which one of the answer choices is exactly that.
We get d.
Now one cool math trick that you should know is that if you have two fractions equal to each other,
the reciprocal of both sides are equal to each other.
So what does this actually mean?
And does this actually work?
Let's take this for example.
5 over 2 equals 10 over 4.
We know that this is obviously true because 10 over 4 simplifies down to 5 over 2.
So let's just test that this applies.
So 5 over 2 taking the reciprocal is just 2 over 5.
And then 10 over 4 taking the reciprocal is just 4 over 10.
Once again, these are still equal to each other.
2 over 5 equals 2 over 5.
This concept right here, or this example, simply illustrates this cool math trick or this concept.
But when things get more complicated, if we start throwing in a bunch of x's,
it seems like it may not be equal.
But we now know that it is.
So let's practice this in a hard question.
The given equation relates the distinct positive numbers a, b, and c.
Which equation correctly expresses b in terms of a and c?
Okay, so this time, we are trying to solve for b.
So firstly, let's try to isolate b by itself.
Because in this case, we can't directly just move b to the numerator.
Because there is being added to something else.
So let's get isolated by itself first.
1 over b, and then let's add 1 over c to both sides,
equals 1 over a minus 1 over c.
Now in this case, we still are not able to isolate b by itself in the numerator
because we can't just easily flip these around.
Because once again, remember the cool math trick is that
these two fractions must be equal to each other.
Right now, it's not just two fractions present.
It's actually three.
And they're not able to be combined yet.
So let's try to make these be able to combine.
We are able to find a common denominator, which is a, c.
So we need to multiply this first fraction by c over c,
and the second fraction by a over a.
So let's do it.
1 over b equals, so multiply this one by c over c,
we get c over c a minus,
and then multiply this one by a over a,
which by the way is just equal to 1, is a over a c.
Well, these two are the same.
I just wrote them differently.
So in this case, now because the denominators are the same,
we're able to combine the right side.
So 1 over b equals c minus a over a c.
Now we have two fractions that are set equal to each other.
So now by the cool math trick,
we're able to just flip these two around
and set them equal to each other.
So b equals, b over 1 equals a c over c minus a.
So now we know that b is equal to a c over c minus a.
And that is answer choice a.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - Advanced math- Nonlinear Equations in 2 Variables - Solutions with 2 Equations - Video.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about non-linear equations in two variables.
So in two variable systems, this is when two equations are happening at the same time.
Also when for example on an x-y plane, there are two equations that are being graphed.
The solution is simply the ordered pair that satisfies both equations simultaneously.
So in order to solve this, we must either perform substitution or elimination and then
solve for one variable.
Once we get that one variable, for example we solve for x, then we plug in that x value
into either equation and then solve the missing variable.
One thing to keep in mind is that if an SAT equation says the graphs, plural, intersect at
point , they are simply just telling you that that point is a solution or one of the solutions.
Let's practice.
The graphs of y=x+9 and y=4x-3 intersect at the point in the xy plane.
What is the value of q?
Okay, so we know we are solving for the y value.
So in this case, let's try to figure out how we can solve for that.
So like the step said, we want to be able to either do elimination or substitution.
In this case, we can perform substitution.
So we can set and manipulate this first equation to get x equals y-9.
And now with this, we can plug in x over into the second equation and then solve for y, which
is what we're solving for, which is q.
So let's do that.
So y equals 4 times y-9 minus 3.
So y equals 4y minus 36 minus 3.
So y equals 4y minus 39.
And now moving the y to the other side, we get negative 3y equals negative 39.
Y therefore equals 13.
So the y value at the intersection, which is equal to q, is equal to 13.
And that is correct.
Let's solve this question using Desmos.
So to solve this question using Desmos, all we need to do is graph the two different equations
and then find the intersection.
So clicking on the function, we see the intersection is .
Therefore, since q, which the question is asking for, is the y value of the solution, our answer
is a, 13.
Now let's practice a medium question.
The solution to the given system equation is where x is greater than 0.
What is the value of y squared?
Okay, make sure that we are solving for y squared.
So looking at these two equations, well the first easy one to solve for is the value of x.
Because x squared equals 49, we know that x equals, after taking the square root, plus or minus 7.
But because the question tells us x must be greater than 0, we can ignore the negative solution
and just get x equals 7.
Now plugging that in, in the top equation, we get 7 minus y equals 3.
Now moving the 7 to the other side, we get negative y equals negative 4 and y equals 4.
Now the question asks us, what is the value of y squared?
Well, y squared equals 4 squared, which equals 16.
And that is b.
Let's solve this question using Desmos.
So to solve this question using Desmos, we need to graph both of these functions, find the intersection, and that will give us x, y.
Then we just need to take y squared.
So after graphing the functions, we can see that there are two intersections, meaning that there are two solutions.
However, this question tells us that the solution to the given equation is x, y, where x is greater than 0.
That occurs at 7, 4.
As we can see over here, this coordinate x is less than 0, which does not fit the criteria of the question.
So therefore, the solution that this question is referring to is this solution right here, 7, 4.
So the value of y squared is therefore 4 squared, which is 16.
Now let's solve a hard question.
If x1, y1, and x2, y2 are the two solutions to the system of equations above, what is the value of y1 plus y2?
Okay, well in this question, there's actually two solutions present, and we need to solve for the y values.
So, when we are manipulating these two equations to do substitution, we want to make sure that we're not doing an extra step in solving for x first, and then having to plug back in to get y.
Let's just directly try to solve for y.
So, let's get x in terms of y, so we can put x and substitute all the x's for y's.
So it's very easy to do this with the second one.
x equals negative y minus 2.
Okay, perfect.
So now let's plug that into this first equation.
So, y equals negative y minus 2 squared plus 4, negative y minus 2 plus 4.
And now let's distribute all of this.
So this inside one gives us y squared plus 4y plus 4, plus negative 4y minus 8, plus 4 equals y.
Now let's combine like terms.
So, let's move this y to the other side first.
So let's set this equal to 0, and we subtract y over here.
Now let's combine like terms.
y squared, okay, so we have plus 4y, and then we have negative 4y, and then minus y.
So, that gives us minus y, and then 4 minus 8 is negative 4, plus 4 is 0, equals 0.
So now here we can factor out y.
So, 0 equals y times y minus 1.
So now we know that the two solutions are, after we're sending these equal to 0, y equals 0, and y minus 1 equals 0.
So, y equals 1.
So, y equals 0 and 1.
So, what is the value of y1 plus y2?
0 plus 1 equals 1.
And that is d.
Let's solve this hard question using Desmos.
So, to solve this hard question using Desmos, all we need to do is graph both of these equations onto Desmos, find the intersection, and then add the y values of that intersection.
Now, as we can see, there are two intersection points.
These are the two solutions.
Adding together the y values, we get 1 plus 0.
So, therefore the answer is d, 1.
Let's do another hard question.
In the given system of equations, c is a positive integer constant.
The system has no real solutions.
What is the least possible value of c?
Okay, so we see these two equations that if we do substitution and manipulate it, we can get this equation to be in the form of standard form.
y equals ax squared plus bx plus c.
And with that, this question tells us that the system has no real solutions.
That also means that using the discriminant b squared minus 4ac, if that's less than 0, then the system will have no real solutions.
So, with this in mind, let's start solving.
So, let's plug and set these equal to each other since they're both equal to y.
So, 10x minus 12 equals x squared plus c.
Now, let's move everything to the same side.
So, let's move this left side to the right side.
x squared minus 10x minus 12 plus 12 plus c.
Now, with this, we know all the values.
So, let's solve this b squared minus 4c is less than 0.
And then we can actually get our answer of what the minimum value of c is.
So, negative 10 squared is 100.
So, 100 minus 4 times 1 times c is 12 plus c.
So, now let's solve as much as we can.
So, and this is less than 0.
So, 100 minus 4, 12 plus c is less than 0.
So, now let's distribute this for 100 minus 48 minus 4c is less than 0.
Now, let's subtract here, 52 minus 4c is less than 0.
Moving the 52 to the other side, negative 4c less than negative 52.
And then, let's divide by negative 4.
And when we do divide by negative, we want to flip the sign.
So, c greater than negative 52 divided by negative 4 gives us 13.
So, c must be greater than 13.
And because c is a positive integer constant, the next value of c that satisfies this condition is 0.
It's 14.
Let's solve this hard question using Desmos.
So, solve this question using Desmos, we must first understand what it means for a system to have no real solutions.
If a system of equation has no real solutions, this means that there are zero intersection points.
So, all we need to do for this question is to graph both of these lines and test values of c until we find the least possible value of c in which there is no intersection.
So, as we can see here, when c is equal to 1, there is indeed one point of intersection.
So, there is one real solution.
Now, as we decrease the value of c, we can see there is still one solution.
But the question tells us c is a positive integer constant.
So, therefore, we don't need to test negative c values.
We need to bring c to the positive side and start testing values until there is no intersection present.
As you can see, there is still an intersection, still an intersection.
And if we really want to check, all we need to do is click on the graph and we can see that there is still a point in which it intersects.
So, now let's try c equals 11.
There is still one point right here.
c equals 12.
There is still a point right here.
c equals 13.
As you can see, there is still a point right here.
But when we go to c equals 14, when we click on the two functions, we see that there is actually no overlapping portion because no dot appears on the graph.
So, therefore, the least possible value of c in which there is no real solutions must be 14.
Because at 13, there is still one solution.
Now, graphically, for two variable systems, the solution is the exact coordinate or coordinates when the two lines or curves intersect.
An example of one solution intersection would be two linear equations because it looks something like this.
They only intersect one time.
An example of two solutions or two intersections would be a linear equation and a quadratic.
So, imagine this is the xy plane, we have a linear, and then we have a quadratic.
You see here, intersection one, intersection two.
So, let's practice.
A system of equations consists of a quadratic equation and a linear equation.
The graphs of both equations are shown in the xy plane.
And the parabola and the line cross at exactly two distinct points.
How many solutions does this system have?
Well, we know that the two systems cross exactly two distinct points.
And every time they cross, that is considered a solution.
So, there is exactly two solutions.
Now, let's try a medium question.
A system of equations is graphed in the xy plane.
The system consists of the parabola y equals x squared minus 4 and the line y equals 2x minus 1.
Which of the following best describes the number of intersection points of these two graphs?
Well, there's two ways to do this.
Firstly, of course, we can set them equal to each other and find and calculate the exact amount of intersection points.
But graphically, this is actually much simpler.
What we need to do is graph the two equations.
After graphing the two, we can easily see that there are two intersections right here.
So, the answer is c.
Let's solve this question using Desmos.
To solve this question using Desmos, all we need to do is graph the two equations that are given to us in the question and find how many intersection points are there.
As we can see on this graph, there are clearly two intersection points.
The first one is right here and the first one is down here.
So, the answer is c.
Now, let's solve this hard question.
In the xy plane, the graph of y equals x squared minus 4 intersects linear line p at 2,a and 6,b, where a and b are constants.
What is the slope of line p?
Okay, so we know that this graph right here, which is a parabola, intersects linear line at p, and it gives us the x values in which it intersects.
Well, because we know that they intersect, all we need to do is plug in these x values into this first parabola,
and then we can find the y values in which this intersection occurs.
Using that, we can now find the slope of the linear line using the slope formula.
So, let's get the y values first.
y equals 2 squared minus 4, which is just y equals 0, and then plugging in 6, y equals 36 minus 4, y equals 32.
So, 2 comma 0, 6 comma 32.
So, now let's calculate slope.
This is y2 minus y1 over x2 minus x1.
So, let's treat this one as the second, and let's treat this as the first.
So, 32 minus 0 over 6 minus 2.
This gives us 32 over 4, which is equal to 8.
So, the slope of line p is 8.
Let's solve this hard question in Desmos.
So, to solve this hard question in Desmos, what we need to know is how to do regression.
So, this question gives us two points that lie on a line, and it tells us that these also fall on a linear line.
So, therefore, in order to solve this, we know that a linear line is y equals mx plus b.
In order to run an regression and solve for what the slope is and the intercept, we must have two points.
Well, we have 2 comma a and 6 comma b.
We don't know the a value nor the b value, but what we do know is that it lies on this parabola right here.
Y equals x squared minus 4.
So, therefore, we can plug in 2.
We can also plug in 6 and solve for what a and what b are equal to.
Once we plug in the two x values into this parabola right here, what we end up getting is 2 comma 0 and 6 comma 32.
From here, we can run a regression to figure out what is the linear line that passes through these two points.
As we can see, that is y equals 8x minus 16.
So, therefore, the correct answer is 8 because that is the slope of the linear line that passes through these points.
If we want to check if this linear line is correct, all we need to do is graph this other function right here and make sure that this function also passes through these two lines.
As we can tell, this parabola does indeed pass through these two points and this linear line also does too.
So, our answer is correct.

