STITCHED TRANSCRIPT
SECTION: Math
TOPIC: PSDA
SKILL: Inference
Generated: 2026-07-13
Original transcript files were not modified.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Inference-MOE-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about inference from sample statistics and margin of error.
More specifically, let's talk about margin of error.
Remember how samples are estimates of populations?
Margin of error quantifies how much a sample is expected to differ from the population.
The formula is the estimate plus or minus the margin of error.
What does this mean?
If in the sample the estimate is three books and the margin of error is one book,
then the true population will be between two to four books because three minus one is two and three plus one is four.
This is the margin of error.
It is giving leeway and it's showing that when we go from a sample to a population,
we may or may not get the actual right number.
So we're going to generate a range, two to four.
Now that we understand this, let's go ahead and apply it to a practice problem.
A publisher produces textbooks and wants to estimate the mean weight of the textbooks printed on a particular day.
A sample of the textbooks printed that day was selected at random.
Based on the sample, it is estimated that the mean weight of all textbooks printed on that day is 3.2 pounds
with an associated margin of error, associated margin of error of 0.4 pounds.
Based on this estimate and associated margin of error, which of the following is the most plausible conclusion?
Now, first, what I'm going to do is I'm going to check what my margin of error is.
So I know my margin of error is the estimate plus or minus the margin of error.
And I know this is my range of plausible values.
So this is going to be the estimate, which is 3.2 plus or minus my margin of error, which is 0.4.
And this is going to give me a range from 3.2 minus 0.4, which is 2.8, all the way to 3.2 plus 0.4, which is 3.6.
So 2.8 to 3.6 is my range.
Now let me check the answer choices.
Answer choice A says the mean weight of all textbooks printed on that day is between 2.8 and 3.6 pounds.
Well, this range is correct.
Now, can we generalize to the mean weights?
Yes, we can because we measured the mean weight of all textbooks in the sample.
So answer choice A would be a good answer.
Now let's check answer choice B.
The actual weights of all textbooks printed on that day are between 2.8 and 3.6 pounds.
Even though the range of values is right and it goes from 2.8 to 3.6, we cannot generalize for the actual weights.
This part is wrong because we only measured the mean weights.
So answer choice B is wrong.
Answer choice C says the actual weights of all textbooks from the sample are between 2.8 pounds and 3.6 pounds.
This is wrong because it's talking about of the sample.
We are looking for the population.
So answer choice C is wrong.
The mean weight of all textbooks printed on that day is exactly 3.2 pounds.
This is wrong and definitely wrong because we know that when we're generalizing from a sample to a population, we cannot ever give an exact number.
It always is an estimate.
So answer choice D is wrong.
So answer choice A would be our best answer.
Let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.
Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it yourself.
A company that manufactures light bulbs wants to estimate the percent of light bulbs produced in a typical week that are defective.
A random sample of light bulbs produced in a certain week were inspected.
Based on the sample, it is estimated that 9% of all light bulbs produced by a company that week are defective with an associated margin of error of 3%.
Based on the estimate and the associated margin of error, which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion about all light bulbs produced by the company during the week?
So we are looking for a generalization to the population.
Now let's go ahead and find out the range of values for the population.
It's going to be the estimate plus or minus the margin of error.
And our estimate is 9% plus or minus a margin of error of 3%.
So this is going to give us a range from 6% to 12%.
So let's look out for this range of values.
Exactly 9% of the light bulbs are defective.
Answer choice A is wrong because we know it can only be a range and we can never generalize to an exact number.
It is plausible that between 6% and 12% of the light bulbs are defective.
This would work with our margin of error.
So answer choice B is right.
Now I'm going to check answer choice C and D.
Exactly 3% of the light bulbs are defective.
Again, we cannot do a specific number.
This is wrong. It is possible that more than 50% of the light bulbs are defective.
This is not in our range of values for margin of error.
So this would be wrong.
So the best answer choice here would be answer choice B.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.
Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it yourself.
A jar containing 8,000 marbles of assorted colors is purchased from a toy store.
To estimate the percent of blue marbles in the jar, a sample of marbles is selected at random.
The percent of blue marbles in the jar was estimated to be 20%.
With an associated margin of error of 3%.
If B is the actual number of blue marbles in the jar, which of the following could be a plausible value of B?
We know that our associated margin of error or the range of values it could be is the estimate plus or minus the margin of error.
Using what we know from the equation, we know that the percent is 20% and the margin of error is plus or minus 3%.
In other words, this range of values goes from 17% to 23%.
Now, is this our answer?
No, because as you can see, our answer choices have it in the actual number of blue marbles.
So we need to find out what the total number of blue marbles is.
The total number is 8,000 as it says in the problem.
So we can take 17% of 8,000 and that would be our lower bound for B.
And then we can also take 23% of 8,000 and that would be our higher bound for B.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We take 17% of 8,000 and we also have 23% of 8,000.
So this means that B needs to be between 1,360 and 1,840.
And the best answer choice that aligns with that is answer choice B.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.
Anything outside the range of the estimate plus or minus the margin of error is highly unlikely to happen.
A smaller margin of error means greater precision and more confidence in the estimate.
If the margin of error is less, that means that what could be wrong is less, which is better.
On the other hand, a larger margin of error means less precision and less confidence in the estimate.
Sample size also affects margin of error.
Larger random samples have smaller margins of error, whereas smaller samples have larger margins of error.
Why is this?
If we gathered 1,000 data points versus 2, the 1,000 is going to have less error since we are picking more data points and getting a fuller picture of the data.
That is why larger samples have smaller margins of error.
Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it for yourself.
In a study of social media habits, 900 randomly selected U.S. teens were asked how frequently they use social media and about their daily screen time.
The data is summarized in the table below.
Based on the data from the study, an estimate of the percent of U.S. teens who are heavy social media users is 35% and the associated margin of error is 4%.
Which of the following is a correct statement based on the given margin of error?
So we know that the given margin of error is 4%.
Let's look at the answer choices.
Approximately 4% of the teens in the study who are classified as heavy social media users are not really heavy users.
This is wrong.
This is not what the margin of error is saying.
The margin of error is saying that we give leeway to the estimate that 35% of U.S. teens are heavy social media users.
So this would be the incorrect application of margin of error.
It is not possible that the percent of all U.S. teens who are heavy social media users is less than 31%.
No, this is technically still possible.
Even though this is the lower bound of the margin of error, there is still a possibility that you can get something outside the bounds of the margin of error.
So this is completely possible, which means that this is wrong.
The percent of all U.S. teens who are heavy social media users is 39%.
Again, we cannot predict specific percentage points.
We can only offer a range.
So answer choice C is wrong.
It is doubtful that the percent of all U.S. teens who are heavy social media users is 42%.
This is a true statement.
It is doubtful.
It's not saying that it's impossible, but it is highly unlikely.
And this is true because our margin of error is from 35% and it's plus or minus 4%, which means that the high bound of our margin of error is 39%.
So if it's 42%, then that means it is a very, very rare percentage of U.S. teens.
So this is going to be our best answer choice.
Now let's go ahead and see if answer choice D is right.
And it is.
Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it yourself.
The results of two random samples of votes for a ballot measure are shown below.
The samples were selected from the same population and the margins of error were calculated using the same method.
Which of the following is the most appropriate reason that the margin of error for sample P is greater than the margin of error for sample Q?
So we're analyzing why the margin of error for Q is greater than the margin of error for Q.
Let's check the answer choices.
Answer choice A says, sample P had a smaller number of votes that could not be recorded.
Is this a reason that sample P is greater?
No, margin of error has nothing to do with the size of the number of votes that could not be recorded.
Rather, margin of error has to do with sample size.
So answer A is wrong.
Answer B says, sample P had a higher percentage of favorable responses.
It has nothing to do with the higher percentage of favorable responses.
Margin of error has everything to do with sample size.
So answer choice B is wrong.
Sample P had a larger sample size.
This does have to do with sample size, but is our sample size going to be larger or smaller?
Well, it says sample P has a greater margin of error, which means that there is more error, which means that there are inaccurate points, which probably means that it has a smaller sample size because a smaller sample size is less representative of the full picture.
So answer choice C would be wrong.
And answer choice D would be our best answer.
Sample P has a smaller sample size.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.
Congratulations on completing SAT problem solving and data analysis.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Inference-Sample Generalization (Calc)-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about inference from sample statistics and margin of error. More specifically, let's talk
about sample generalization with calculations. Now that we understand sample generalization
conceptually, this is a reference to our previous video with evaluating statistical claims and our
conceptual review of sample generalization there. So if you want to do a review, go ahead and watch
that video. How do we calculate it? There is one simple rule. The sample ratio is approximately
equal to the population ratio. What does this mean? Well, if one out of four kids in a sample
liked chocolate and there were 16 kids in the total population, around four would like the
chocolate in the population. This makes sense because since the sample can generalize, meaning
the ratio of the sample will approximately equal the ratio of the population, that means that in this
case, one out of four is equal to four out of 16. We know conceptually that samples are approximately
equal to the population. However, with sample generalization calculation, the ratios are usually
directly proportional and equal. That's okay. You can still choose that answer because the question will
usually say something like the best estimate, which basically is saying the best approximation,
or in other words, the direct proportion. Now that we understand this, let's go ahead and try a practice
problem. A school district has 60 school board members. A journalist polled a random sample of 15
school board members and found that four of those polled supported a new after-school program proposal.
Based on the sample, which of the following is the best estimate of the number of school board members
in the district who supported the proposal. So we know that we have a random sample and we know that
out of 15 school board members, four of them supported the after-school program. This is asking us how many
out of the entire school district with 60 board members would support the proposal. So we are going to set
this sample ratio equal to the population ratio, which is going to be X because we don't know the amount
that would support out of 60, which is the total number of school board members. Now we can simply do
cross multiplication. This is going to give us 240 is equal to 15 X, divide both sides by 15, and we are
going to get X equals 16. So the best answer choice that matches up with what we got is answer choice C.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Alternatively, you can solve this problem in
Desmos using regression. If we know that the sample population is four out of 15, we can set that
approximately equal to the total population, which is X out of 60. We'll call this X one out of 60. Notice how it
gives us the regression parameter of 16, just like that. This is a faster way of calculating numerical sample
generalization. And just to preface, this Desmos strategy works for all the subsequent practice
problems that we are about to take on. So you can always apply regression to any of these practice
problems. Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it yourself. A random sample of 500 town voters were
asked if they plan to vote for candidate X or candidate Y for the mayor. The results were sorted by gender
and shown in the table below. The town has a total of 5000 voters. Based on the table, what is the best
estimate of the number of voters who plan to vote for candidate X? I can see that there are 265 females and
45 males that plan to vote for candidate X. So that's going to be 265 plus 45, or in other words, 310
total voters that plan on voting for candidate X. Now this is out of a random sample of 500 voters. So
this is going to be 310 out of 500. And this is going to be the random sample amount of people that vote
for candidate X. We are going to set this random sample ratio equal to the population ratio, which is going
to be the amount of people that vote for candidate X, which is an X amount out of 5000. Now that we have
this, we can simply cross multiply, or we can set up a regression model. Since I want to save myself some
time, I'm going to go ahead and just enter this as regression. So this is going to become 310 out of 500.
It's approximately equal to X1 over 5000. Here I can see that my regression parameter is 3100. So the number
of people in the population that plan to vote for candidate X is equal to 3100. Now let's go ahead
and see if that answer is right. And it is. Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it yourself.
In state Y, Ms. Rivera's sixth grade class consisting of 30 students was surveyed and about 40% of the
students reported that they own a pet. The average sixth grade class size in the state is 30. If the
students in Ms. Rivera's class are representative of students in the state's sixth grade classes and there
are 2200 sixth grade classes in the state, which of the following best estimates the number of sixth
grade students in the state who do not own a pet. So let's first break down this sample. Out of the 30
students in the sample, we know that 40% own a pet. So 30 times 0.4, that is going to give us 12. So we
know that 12 out of 30 own a pet in the sample, but we are looking for the amount of sixth grade students
who do not own a pet. So we know that if 12 out of 30 own a pet, we're going to have 60% or in other words,
18 out of 30 who do not own a pet. And this makes sense because 12 plus 18 adds up to 30. So 18 out of
30 is our sample of the students in Ms. Rivera's sixth grade class who do not own a pet. And since this
is representative of the entire population, we can set this equal to the population ratio. Now the population
ratio, we are looking for this number of students who do not own the pet. So that's going to be x. Out of
the number of sixth grade students, there are 2200 sixth grade classes. However, we can't just put 2200
there. We need to look back at a previous part of the problem that says the average sixth grade class
size in the state is 30. So we actually need to multiply 30, which is the amount of students in every class
by 2200 to get our total population. Doing this, what we need to do is cross multiply. I'm going to go ahead
and take a shortcut on Desmos and enter it through regression. I'm going to type 18 over 30 is
approximately equal to x1 over 30 times 2200. This is going to give us that x1 is equal to 39,600. And
that is going to be the amount of sixth grade students in the state who do not own a pet. So the answer
choice that best matches up with that is answer choice C. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is. Before we do this problem, go ahead and try it yourself.
The table shows the results of a poll. A total of 400 voters selected at random were asked which of the
candidates they would vote for in the upcoming election. According to the poll, if 10,000 people
vote in the election, by how many votes would Maya Chen be expected to win? First, what we need to do is we
need to set up our ratio. We know that the sample population out of the 400 voters, we know 260 would
vote for Maya Chen. We need to set that equal to the population. So out of the population, there's going to be
10,000 people and we are looking for how many people would vote for Maya Chen. So we can go ahead and
cross multiply. I'm going to enter this into Desmos so that regression can solve it really fast. We have
260 over 400 is approximately equal to x over 10,000. That is going to give us a regression parameter of
6,500. Meaning that 6,500 people in the population would vote for Maya Chen. So is this our answer?
Well, not quite. Because the question is asking by how many votes would Maya Chen be expected to win?
What this means is that we actually need to calculate how many people in this pool would vote for Jordan
Lee. And then we need to find the difference between the two and that's how many votes Maya Chen would be
expected to win by. If 6,500 are expected to vote for Maya Chen, then we know 3,500 are going to vote for
Jordan Lee. Because 6,500 plus 3,500 is going to equal our total of 10,000. Therefore, Maya Chen is going to
win by 6,500 votes minus 3,500 votes, which is the difference between the amount of votes of the two
candidates. And this is going to give us 3,000 votes. So our best answer choice that supports what we got
is answer choice B. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is.

