STITCHED TRANSCRIPT
SECTION: Math
TOPIC: PSDA
SKILL: Probability
Generated: 2026-07-13
Original transcript files were not modified.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Arithmetic Percentages-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages. More specifically, let's talk about adding, subtracting, multiplying,
and dividing with percentages. These are basic percentage questions, but the SAT will make you
do arithmetic operations with them. So just be prepared. Let's go ahead and do an example.
The cost of a certain book is $40 before an 8% sales tax is added. What is the total cost,
including sales tax, to purchase the book? So I know that the book is $40 and there's an 8%
sales tax. It's asking for the total cost, including the tax. First, what I have is the
original cost of my book. That's $40. Now I need to add on the sales tax. The sales tax is equal to $40
multiplied by 8% or 0.08. If we put 40 times 0.08 into the calculator, we are going to get 3.2.
So this is the equivalent of 40 being added to 3.2, and this is going to give us a total cost of 43.2.
And the best answer that matches with what we got is answer choice C. Now let's go ahead and see if
that's right. And it is. An important note is that this is an example of adding with percentages.
Be aware that all arithmetic operations could be asked. Before we do this question, go ahead and
try it for yourself. A company is forming a planning committee. Of those invited, 20% are volunteers,
50% are staff members, 20% are vendors, and the remaining four individuals are guests. How many more
staff members were invited than vendors? First, what we need to do is understand what the total amount of
percentages are. We have 20%, which are volunteers, plus 50%, which are staff, plus 20%, which are vendors.
And this is going to give us a total of 20 plus 50, which is 70, plus 20 is 90. A total of 90%
are composed of volunteers, staff, and vendors. The remaining four, in other words, the remaining 10%,
because 90 plus 10 adds up to 100% of all the people. In other words, 10% are four. How many more staff
members were invited than vendors? So we need to calculate the individual amounts of each of these.
We know that we have four guests, and we know that these four guests are 10% of the total guests.
We can set up our fraction. Four over X amount, which is the total amount, and is what we don't know,
is equal to 10% out of 100. Now we can cross multiply these, and we are going to get 400 is equal to 10X.
Or in other words, if we divide both sides by 10, we are going to get X equals 40. This means that the
total amount of people invited is 40. Now we can simply find the amount of staff members and vendors.
So we know that 50% are staff members. 50% of 40, or in other words, 40 times 0.5 is going to be 20.
So that's the amount of staff members. We'll label this S. We also need to know the amount of vendors.
We know that 20% are vendors. So we can take 40, and we can multiply that by 20%, or in other words,
0.2, and we are going to get 8. 8 is the amount of vendors. Now we need to know how many more staff
members were invited than vendors. So we have 20 staff members. We have 8 vendors. This is simply going to be
20 minus A, and that is going to give us 12. So there are 12 more staff members invited than vendors.
Now let's go ahead and see if this is right. And it is.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Basic Percentages-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages. More specifically, let's go over basic percentages. A percentage is a way of expressing a number as a fraction of 100. For example, 50% is equal to 50 over 100, or 0.5 in decimal form. Use the formula par over whole equals percent over 100 to find any missing value from a percentage equation. So in percentage questions, there are many different ways they could ask a question. For example, they could be like, what is two?
20% of 50. Or they could say, we have 20 students, and out of those 20 students, there's 100 total students. What is the percentage? In all these different ways, they are testing one part of this formula. They're either asking for the part, the whole, or the percentage. And if we use this formula, we are able to solve any types of these variations of questions using the same method. So let's go ahead and give this formula a try on a practice problem. 35 is 25% of what number? I know my
formula is part over whole is equal to percent over 100. Now, I know my part is 35. And my whole, I actually don't know what that is, because we know that 35 is 25% of some number, but we don't know what the total number is. So that is going to be our missing value x. And now we are going to set that equal to 25% because that is the percentage we are given. We're going to put that over 100. Now, what we do is we simply cross multiply.
So we're going to get 3500 is equal to 25x. After I put that into the calculator, we are going to get x equals 140. And that is going to be our answer. So out of all the answer choices, answer choice D best matches our answer. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. An important note is that this question could be presented in different forms. For example, it could give 35 and 140 and we would need to find the percentage instead. But if we know the
formula par over whole equals percent over 100, we can solve any question that it gives. Here's an important trap to note down. If something is a percentage of something, for example, 14%, if the SAT asks you for p%, do not enter 0.14 or 14%, but just enter 14. You are looking for p by itself. Before we do this question, go ahead and try it yourself. 91 is p% of 260. What is the value of p?
I know my formula part over whole is equal to percent over 100. I know that the part is 91 and
that the whole is 260 and this is going to be equal to some x amount of percent or in this case
p percent out of 100. Now what I can do is I can cross multiply 260p is going to be equal to 9100.
When I divide both sides by 260 and I enter it into the calculator I'm going to get p equals 35.
The value of p is 35. If it is an SAT fill in the blank do not put 35 percent or 0.35. These will
both be counted as wrong so do not do this just enter 35. Now let's go ahead and see if the answer
choice is right. And it is. Alternatively we can solve this on Desmos using regression. Let's say
that I know that my par over whole is 91 over 260. I'm going to set that approximately equal to the
percentage amount. In this case it's p over 100. With Desmos I can calculate this much faster than
manually doing it by hand and we automatically get the regression output of p equals 35.
Sometimes the SAT will only give you variables to work with. Remember what you were solving for,
a's relationship to b etc and plug in variables to manipulate the equation.
Before we do this question go ahead and try it for yourself. The positive number p is 40 percent of the
sum p and q and q is 75 percent of r. What percent of r is p? First what we need to do is write down what
we know. We know that p is equal to 40 percent or in other words 0.4 of the sum of p and q. p plus q. So I'm
simply writing what the problem gives us in mathematical notation. We also know that q is 75 percent of r.
So we're going to get q is equal to 0.75 times r. Now what we need to do is we need to relate r to p because
it's asking for what percent of r is p or out of r what is p. So this is the same thing as asking for p over r.
How do we do this? Well we can put q and substitute it into the first equation. So then that's going to
give us p equals 0.4 times p plus q and q is just 0.75 r. Now that we've done this we can go ahead and
multiply out the equation. We're going to get p equals 0.4 p plus 0.4 times 0.75 which is 0.3 r. Now we can
put p on one side if we subtract 0.4 p from both sides we're going to get 0.6 p on one side equal to
0.3 r. If we divide both sides by 0.6 we are going to get p is equivalent to one half times r. Now we
can simply divide both sides by r and get p over r is equal to one half or in other words 0.5. And the
answer choice that best supports that is answer choice b. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is. This is a very common question type where they have variables that are equal to some
percentage of another variable and you need to solve for a certain fraction of variable. So just
remember this question type. Alternatively you can solve this on Desmos using lists. We know that p
is 40 percent of the sum of p and q which is one equation. And we also know that q is 75 percent of r
which is a second equation. If we know two equations and those equations are related to each other we can
create a list. So what we're going to do is create a bracket and we're going to call it p comma q because
these are the two variables for which the problem gives us information about. We're going to set that
approximately equal to whatever p is. p is equal to 40 percent the sum of p and q. So I'm going to type
that 40 percent the sum of p and q. It is very important for us to put parentheses around p and q so that
Desmos does not only just take 40 percent of p and add that to q but instead adds p and q first and then takes
40 percent of that. Now we're going to put a comma which separates what p is and now we're going on to what q is.
q is 75 percent of r so we can put 75 percent of r. Now we are going to get regression outputs of zero zero and zero.
This is because theoretically if all these numbers were zero it would satisfy this equation. However, we need to put in our constraints and in the problem what does it say?
It says the positive number p. This is very important. Now we can add a constraint using a brace and this is going to look like p is greater than zero because it says the positive number p.
Now as you can see we are going to get regression parameters that actually output what we want and we are looking for p over r. Since p is one and r is two
we can actually just simply type p over r. Since Desmos has already defined what p and r is we can just type the variables and that will give us a numerical output being 0.5 or in other words 50 percent. So this is another way you can solve this percentage problem.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Basic Prob-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about probability and conditional probability. More specifically, let's talk about
basic probability. Probability measures how likely a specific event is to happen. It is always
calculated as the number of target outcomes divided by the total number of possible outcomes.
In simple scenarios, you must first calculate the total outcomes by adding up all the items
in the pool. Here we have a visual representation of our formula, which is that our probability is
equal to the number of target outcomes divided by the total outcomes. If we want to find the
probability of seven red marbles out of 16 marbles, what is the target and what is the total? If we
apply what we know, we know that there is a total of 16 marbles and out of those 16 marbles, we are
targeting the seven red ones. So our fraction would be seven out of 16 and that would give us our
probability. So seven out of 16 marbles is equal to a 0.4375 probability. Now what does a 0.4375
probability mean? That means there was a 43.75% chance of pooling a red marble. The probability of
something occurring is always between 0 and 1. Now that we have a conceptual foundation for basic
probability, let's go ahead and try a problem. There are M mystery novels and 9 drama novels on a
library shelf. If one of these books is selected by random, what is the probability of selecting a mystery
novel in terms of M? I know that the probability is equal to the number of target outcomes divided by the
number of total outcomes. Therefore, I'm looking first for the target. My target is the probability of
selecting a mystery novel. I can call this target M. Now I'm going to divide that by the number of total
outcomes. So what are all the novels on the shelf? Well, we're going to have M mystery novels on the bottom
and we're also going to add that to the nine drama novels and that is the total number of books.
So our probability is going to be equal to M over M plus 9. Out of all the answer choices, the one that
best represents this situation is answer choice B. Now let's go ahead and see if this is right. And it is.
Before we do this question, go ahead and try it yourself. Each face of a fair 12-sided die is
labeled with a number from 1 through 12 with a different number appearing on each face. If the die
is rolled one time, what is the probability of rolling an 8? So we have a 12-sided die and we remember
that our probability formula is equal to the target over the total. Now we need to find what the total is.
So out of all the possibilities, we have 12 sides. So that is our total. And our target is to roll an 8.
To roll an 8, that would be one number out of these 12 numbers because it says that there is a different
number appearing on each face. So the probability of rolling an 8 would be 1 out of 12, which is answer
choice A. Now let's check if our answer is right. And it is. Before we do this question, go ahead and try it
yourself. In a jar there are 10 red, 8 white, 6 blue, and 4 yellow marbles. If one of these marbles is
selected at random, what is the probability of selecting a marble that is neither blue nor yellow?
So in our jar we have 10 red, 8 white, 6 blue, 4 yellow. If we add all those up, we're going to get 10,
plus 8, plus 6, plus 4. Which is going to give us 18, 24, 28, 28 total marbles. Now we need to find the
probability of selecting one that is not blue and not yellow. We know that 6 of them are blue and 4 of
them are yellow. So out of this 28, we need to find the ones that aren't blue or yellow. We can simply
subtract 28 from 10 because these are the ones that are blue and yellow. And we'll get 18, which is the
remainder number of marbles that are not blue and yellow. We would get 18 out of 28 as our probability,
which is equivalent to 9 out of 14. So our best answer choice would be answer choice D. Now let's go
ahead and see if that's right. And it is. When there's a lot of information in a probability set, write it out.
Before we do this question, go ahead and try it yourself. An orchard has four rows of apple trees
and five rows of pear trees. Each row of apple trees has seven trees that are six feet or taller and three
trees that are shorter than six feet. Each row of pear trees has four trees that are six feet or taller
and six trees shorter than six feet. A tree from one of these rows will be selected at random. What is the
probability of selecting a pear tree given that the tree is six feet or taller? We need to find the
amount of trees that are six feet or taller. This is the pool we're looking at. We know that our
probability formula is equal to the target number over the total. First, let's solve for the total number.
The total number of trees are all the trees that are six feet and taller. We know that there are four rows of
apple trees and if we multiply this by seven because there are seven apple trees in each row that are six
feet or taller, we know that we can multiply this by seven and we'll get 28 apple trees that are six feet
and up. Now we need to check the pear trees. There are five rows of pear trees. If we multiply that by the
amount of trees in each row that are six feet or taller, we're going to have four. We'll get five times four,
which is going to be 20 pear trees that are six feet or taller. So we know that the total amount of
trees that are six feet or taller are 28 plus 20, which is equal to 48. This is the total amount of
trees. Now we need to find our target. The target is to select a pear tree. So out of the apple trees and
the pear trees that are six feet or taller was the probability of selecting a pear tree. So in this case,
the pear trees that are six feet or taller are 20. So our target is going to be 20 out of the 48. And
this can simplify down to 5 over 12. So our best answer choice would be answer choice C. Now let's
go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Before we do this question, go ahead and try it yourself.
Set M consists of all the positive integers that are less than or equal to 60, where none of the
integers are repeated. If a number is selected at random from set M, what is the probability of selecting
a number that is even and less than or equal to 40? So first, we know that the probability of finding
something is the target over the total. We know that out of the entirety of set M that there are 60
integers and they're all less than or equal to 60. So we know that the total is out of 60. Now we need to
identify our target. We need to find the probability of selecting a number that is even and less than or
equal to 40. So out of the 60 numbers, there are 40 that are less than or equal to 40. Now out of these
40 numbers, how many are even? Well, if we divide 40 by 2, we are going to get the amount of even numbers
that are less than or equal to 40, which is 20. So there are 20 even numbers less than or equal to 40.
This is our target. So we need to put our target where it belongs on the probability formula. It's going
to be 20 out of 60. So the probability of selecting a number that is even and less than or equal to 40
is 20 out of 60. And that simplifies to one third. So our best answer choice would be answer choice A.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Chaining Percentages-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages, and more specifically, let's talk about chaining percentages.
When a value goes through multiple percentage changes, each subsequent change is applied to a new total, not the original starting amount.
Treat each step as a separate multiplication.
For example, a 10% increase followed by another 10% increase is calculated as the original multiplied by 10% multiplied by another 10%, a.k.a. a total of a 1.21 change from the original, increasing by 21%.
So when we are going through multiple percentage changes, we multiply the percentages together.
Now that we know a little bit about chaining percentages, let's go ahead and give it a try on a practice problem.
In a collection, 40% of the shapes are triangles. Of all the triangles, 30% are blue.
What percentage of the shapes in the collections are blue triangles?
So we are looking for something that is not only a triangle, but is also blue.
Let's first start with the probability of a shape being a triangle.
That is going to be 40%, or 4 out of 10.
Then, of all the triangles, 30% are blue.
So the probability of a triangle also being blue is 30%.
So we multiply that percentage by 30, which is 3 out of 10.
And this is going to give us, if we multiply these percentages together, 12 over 100.
Or in other words, 12%.
So of all the shapes, how many are blue triangles?
Well, 12% are going to be.
And as you can see, we chain these percentages together.
So the best answer choice would be answer choice B.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.
An important note is that this question can be presented in different forms.
For example, it could give you the starting amount of total shapes that are triangles,
and you would need to find the amount of blue triangles that are actually in this collection.
Okay.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Decimals to Percents-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages. More specifically, let's talk about how to go from decimals to
percents. What we need to do is if we're starting with a decimal, we move the decimal point exactly
two places to the right and add a percentage symbol. For example, 0.45 will become 45% because
we move the decimal two places to the right and then we add a percentage sign. If we're going from
a percent to a decimal, we do the exact opposite. We move two places to the left and delete the
percent symbol. Now that we know a little bit about the relationship of decimals and percents,
let's go ahead and try on a practice problem. The length of the base of a certain parallelogram is
0.6% of the height of the parallelogram. Which expression represents the length of the base of
the parallelogram where h is the height? So we need to find an equation that correctly relates the length
of the base of the parallelogram to the height of the parallelogram. Well, we know that the base is
equal to 60% of the height. If we notice our answer choices, we'll see that they are in decimal form.
So we need to convert this into decimal form. We know that the base is equal to 60%. Or in other words,
if we move the decimal place two places to the left, it's going to be 0.6 times the height. The best
answer choice that fits what we got right here is answer choice D. Now let's go ahead and see if that's
right. And it is. Understanding over 100%. A decimal greater than 1 represents a percentage greater than
100%. For example, 1.5 converts to 150. So if you were to find 150% of 10, that would be the same as
multiplying 10 by 1.5. Before we do this question, go ahead and try it for yourself. Which expression
represents the result of increasing a positive quantity in by 35%? First, what I need to focus
on is that we are increasing this quantity. Usually, if we see a change in percentage of n by 35, our first
instinct would be to multiply n by 0.35. But this is wrong because this is saying we are taking 35% of n,
which is not what the question is asking. The question is talking about increasing the positive
quantity in by 35. So what we actually do is we take n and we multiply it by itself because we start with n
and then we add a 35% increase to it. So 0.35 increase. And so this is going to be the same as
1.35 in. Or in other words, increasing n by 35%. Now out of all the answer choices, the best one that
fits what we got is answer choice A. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Before we
do this question, go ahead and try it for yourself. Marcus bought a box of power bar snacks. The nutrition
fact states that one bar provides 16 milligrams of iron, which is 8% of the daily allowance for adults.
If P percent of an adult's daily allowance of iron is provided by X bars per day, which of the following
expresses P in terms of X. So we are looking for how many bars provide the daily allowance for adults.
The daily allowance for the adults is P percent. And we know that one bar is equal to 8% of the daily
allowance. One bar is equal to 8% of the daily allowance. So the amount of our daily allowance would
be equal to P percent. And we would set that equal to 8% and multiply that by the amount of bars that we
have, which is X. Now, in this case, both of these are already percentages, so they can actually cancel out.
And we are going to be left with P equals 8X as our equation, with 8 being the percent of daily allowance, and X being the amount of bars that we have, and P being the total percent of daily allowance that we gain from eating X amount of bars. So the best answer choice that matches up with what we got is answer choice B. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Percentage Change w 2 Values-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages. More specifically, let's go into the percentage change between two
values. To find the percentage change between two numbers, use this formula. The new value minus the
old value over the old value. If the result is positive, you have a percentage increase. If the
result is negative, you have a percentage decrease. Now that we know a little bit more about this,
let's go ahead and try on a practice problem. A table of the average home price in a certain city
for four different years is shown below. What is the percentage increase of the average home price
from 2000 to 2010? So I know that I'm looking from the year 2000 to 2010. The first thing I'm going to do
is remember my formula. New minus old over old is the percentage increase or decrease. This is going
to be equal to the new price, which is 250,000 minus the old price, which is 200,000 divided by the old
price, which is 200,000. And if we look at this conceptually, we'll see that we are calculating the
percentage increase, which is just the change in price over the old price. 250,000 minus 200,000 is simply
how much it changed from 2000 to 2010. This is going to give us 50,000 over 200,000 equal to a 25% increase.
So our best answer choice here would be answer choice B. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is.
Before we do this question, go ahead and try it for yourself. A line graph shows the total amount of rainfall in millimeters recorded
each year in Phoenix, Arizona from 2001 to 2013. The annual rainfall in 2005 was 60 millimeters and the annual rainfall in 2009 was 15 millimeters.
If P percent is the percent decrease in annual rainfall from 2005 to 2009, what is the value of P?
So first we need to remember our formula, which is new minus old over old. We know that the new amount of rainfall in 2009 was 15.
And we know that the old amount of rainfall in 2005 was 60. So we go new minus old. So 15 minus 60 over the old amount of rainfall, which was also 60.
This is going to give us a fraction of negative 45 over 60. And this is going to equal negative 0.75.
The negative indicating that it is a percent decrease. In other words, this is saying that we are having a 75% decrease. So the value of P would be 75.
Now let's go ahead and see if this is right. And it is.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Percentage Increase and Decrease-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages. More specifically, let's talk about percentage increase and decrease.
In every percent change problem, the original value always represents 100%. All increases and
decreases are calculated as a departure from the 100% baseline. For example, if I took 100% of 20,
it would still be 20. It is the same as multiplying 20 by 1. The growth factor is 1 plus r and this
represents a percentage increase and we are adding to the original 100%. As you can see, 1 is the
original 100% and then we are adding whatever increase our percentage is. For example, a 20%
increase creates a multiplier of 1.2. The opposite of this would be the decay factor or 1 minus r.
A percentage decrease means that you are subtracting from the original 100%. For example, a 20% decrease
creates a multiplier of 0.8. So a 20% decrease is actually just the same as finding 80% of some
value. Now that we know a little bit about percentage increase and decrease, let's go ahead and try on a
practice problem. There were approximately 86,000 physical therapy jobs in the United States in 2015.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics projected that this number would increase by 34% from 2015 to 2025.
Of the following, which is the closest to the number of physical therapy jobs the Bureau projected for 2025?
We know that the amount of physical therapy jobs in 2015 is 86,000. So we're going to start with that
number. Now we are going to take that and this is going to increase by 34% in 2025. What we do is we
multiply this by the starting amount, which is 86,000. And then we are going to add a 34% increase and
that's going to be 0.34. In other words, we are taking 86,000 and we are multiplying it by 1.34 times
its original amount, which is the same thing as a 34% increase. If we enter this into the calculator,
it's going to give us 115,240. And the best answer choice that matches what we got is answer choice D.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. An important note is that if it asks,
what is 34% greater than 86,000 or what is 134% of 86,000, this is the same thing as saying an increase
of 34%. These are all asking the same question, just in different wording. Before we do this question,
go ahead and try it for yourself. During a sale, the original prices of all items in a shoe store
have been reduced by 15%. What is the sale price of a pair of shoes with the original price of 120%?
We know that we started with the original price of 120. And we also know that all original prices have
been reduced by 15%. So what we're going to do is we're going to multiply this by percentage decrease.
We start with our original value. So we multiply 120 by one, and then we are going to subtract 15%,
or in other words, 0.15. And when we do this, we're going to get 120 multiplied by one minus 0.5,
or in other words, 0.85. So this is representing a 15% decrease, or in other words, 85% of 120. And when
we enter this into the calculator, it's going to give us 102. So our best answer choice that matches with
that is answer choice C. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Before we do this
question, go ahead and try it for yourself. The result of increasing a quantity by 24% is 372.
What is the original quantity? So we are looking for the original quantity, and we don't know what
that is. So we'll just call that x. And we have increased x by 24%. So what we know is that we took
x, we multiplied it by itself. And then we also added 24% on top of that. So it's going to be x times
one plus 0.24. Or in other words, taking 1.24 times x. And we know that the result of doing this
gave us 372. So now, as you can see, we have set up a simple equation. And all we need to do is divide
both sides by 1.24. And we are going to get x equals 300. And the answer choice that best matches
with what we got is answer choice C. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is.
Alternatively, you can solve this problem in Desmos by using regression. We know that we have a quantity
that when increased by 24% gives us 372. So we know that we have x amount, and we multiply that by 1.24.
And that is going to give us 372. Let's go ahead and put our regression sign and put 372. And let's also
go ahead and change our x to x1 so that it actually becomes a regression parameter. Now we know
that x1 is 300. And this is a much faster way of calculating the original quantity.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Prob Element Missing-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about probability and conditional probability. More specifically, let's talk about when a probability element is missing.
Sometimes a question will not give you the total outcomes or the targeted outcome. Use the probability formula to your advantage and solve for the unknown.
Just remember the formula, probability equals target outcomes over total outcomes.
Let's try this on a practice problem. These students register for dance classes.
The frequency table shows how many of these students prefer certain dance styles.
If one of these students is selected at random, what is the probability she prefers salsa?
I know that a certain number of students register for dance classes, and I know that the probability formula is equal to the target number of outcomes over the total.
First, let me find the total. The total, well, usually it gives us the total number of students, but in this case it doesn't.
So what we need to do is we actually need to manually find the amount by adding up all the number of students.
So that's going to be 5 plus 8 plus 12 plus 5, and that's going to be 5 plus 8 is 13 plus 12 is 25 plus 5 is 30.
So there are a total of 30 students. So I know my total is going to be 30 students.
What is the probability that she prefers salsa?
So I know that out of all these students, 12 students prefer salsa.
So that's going to be 12 out of 30, which in decimal form, if we plug it into the calculator, is going to give us 0.4.
So our answer to this problem is 0.4.
And the best answer that aligns with that is answer choice B.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is.
Before we do this question, go ahead and try it yourself.
A survey taken by 1,200 students at a school asked whether they participated in an after-school club.
The table below summarizes all 1,200 responses from the students surveyed.
How many of the boys surveyed responded that they are not in an after-school club?
So how many of the boys said that they were not in an after-school club?
So we are looking for this question mark right here.
Well, what do we know?
We know that there was a total of 1,200 students.
1,200.
And we also know that there were 380 boys in a club, 270 girls in a club, and 265 girls not in a club.
So we know if we subtract all these numbers, we will get the remaining number of boys not in a club.
Let's go ahead and put this into the calculator.
We are going to subtract 380, 275, and 265 from 1,200.
And that is going to give us 280.
So we know that our answer is 280 boys that are not in that after-school club.
And that's going to be answer choice B.
Now let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.
On March 15, 2021, there were 74 million streaming service subscribers in Brazil.
The major streaming providers were StreamMax, PlayNow, VivaStream, ZoneFlix, and BrightView.
By December 31, 2022, the number of streaming subscribers in Brazil had increased to 115 million.
If a streaming subscriber in Brazil on December 31, 2022 is selected at random, the probability that the person selected was a StreamMax subscriber is 0.37.
There were P million StreamMax subscribers in Brazil on December 31, 2022.
To the nearest integer, what is the value of P?
So we are looking for P million subscribers.
So the amount of subscribers that were subscribed to StreamMax.
This is also on 2022.
So we know that we need to look at the total population in 2022, which was 115 million right here.
Our probability formula is equal to the target amount over the total amount.
Our total amount here is going to be 115 million.
And our target, the amount of people doing StreamMax subscribing is 0.37 of 115 million.
So initially, I was going to set up a fraction, but I realized that 0.37 of 115 million is the same as taking 37% of 115 million.
So let's go ahead and do that on the calculator.
I can take 37% of 115 million.
0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.
That is going to give me 42,550,000 StreamMax subscribers.
What is the value of P?
So there were P million.
So actually, P is already in terms of million.
So what we need to do is not say it's 42,550,000.
We instead need to take this six decimal places to the left.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
So we know that 42,550,000 is the same thing as saying 42.5 million.
Now, is this our answer?
Not quite, because in the problem, it actually asks to the nearest integer, what is the value of P?
So this problem is a little bit tricky because it might get you with the wording.
But now we know that we need to round to the nearest integer.
So actually, 42.5 is not an integer because there's a decimal.
We need to go to 43.
So our final answer would be 43 million.
And 43 is the value of P.
Now, let's go ahead and see if that's right.
And it is.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Table Prob-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about probability and conditional probability. More specifically, let's go over
table probability. We know that the probability formula is equal to the amount of target outcomes
over the total outcomes. We can apply this same formula to table questions. Let's go ahead and
try it on a practice problem. The table gives the distribution of votes for a favorite school
elective and grade level for students. If one of these students is selected at random, what is the
probability of selecting a student whose favorite elective is music? So I know that the probability
of selecting something is the target over the total. Let me go ahead and identify each of these.
I know that out of all the students, because it's saying that out of all the students, if one was
selected at random, there is a total of 90 students. So my total is going to be 90. And I know that my
target is those whose favorite elective is music. Out of 7th, 8th, and 9th grade, the total number of
kids that like music is 18. This is going to be the probability of selecting a student whose favorite
music, 18 out of 90. This is going to simplify to one over five. And our best answer choice would
then be answer choice C. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Before we do this
question, go ahead and try it yourself. The table above shows information about 18 laptops listed
for sale on a retailer's website. If one of the laptops listed for sale is selected at random,
what is the probability that the laptop selected will be a gaming laptop priced at no more than
$800. So we know that the probability of something is equal to the target outcomes over the total
outcomes. Let's find first what the total outcomes are. There are a total of 18 laptops for sale. So
we can go ahead and put 18 on the denominator. Now let's find the target. A gaming laptop priced at no
more than 800. So we are looking for a gaming laptop, these right here, and also priced no more than 800.
So it needs to have both of these attributes and the only ones that are gaming and priced no more
than 800 are these three right here. So we know that our target is three of these laptops out of the total
of 18. And this is going to simplify to 1 over 6. So our answer is 1 over 6. And the choice that matches with that is
the answer is 1 over 6. So let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Conditional probability is the
likelihood of an event occurring given that another event has already occurred. The given condition
effectively shrinks your denominator. Instead of looking at the entire original group, you can only
look at a specific subgroup defined by the condition. Now what does this mean? For example, let's say that we
had 10 apples, 5 are green, 5 are red. Additionally, 3 of the green are bad apples and 3 of the red are bad apples.
If you were asked to find a bad apple, given that it's red, that means that it's conditional
probability. Instead of looking out of all 10 apples, you restrict to only looking at the red
ones. Therefore, your denominator changes to five because there are only five red apples for your
total outcomes. Now that we understand conditional probability a little bit more, let's go ahead and
try on a practice problem. The data on the coat color and eye color for 40 Simonese cats available
for adoption were collected and summarized in the table above. What fraction of the caramel coated cats
has green eyes? Automatically, I'm noticing that we are only looking at the caramel coated cats. So this
is telling me that I have conditional probability because I am restricting the denominator or the
total amount of outcomes. I know that probability is equal to target over total. I also know that my
total needs to be the fraction of caramel coated cats. So out of all of these cats, how many are
caramel coated? Well, there are 12. So I know that my total amount is going to be 12. And out of those
12, how many have green eyes? Nine of them. Nine out of the caramel coated cats have green eyes. So I'm
going to put that on the top of the fraction. So this is my answer and answer choice D best matches up
with that. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. Before we do this question, go ahead and
try it yourself. The table above gives the number of professional tennis players active in 2023 whose
age falls within the interval listed. Of those players who were at least 30 years old, what fraction
were at least 40 years old? So of the players that were 30, I know that this is conditional probability
because we are restricting the number of total outcomes that we can look at. We can only look at the
players who were at least 30 years old. So this amount of players right here. And out of these players,
what fraction were at least 40 years old? So right here, I know that probability is equal to target over
total. The total amount of outcomes is equal to the number of tennis players that were at least 30 years
old. So this is going to be 15 plus 10. That's 25 plus eight. That's going to be 33 plus 4, 37. So the total
amount is 37. And I know that my target is the ones that were at least 40 years old. So this is going to
be 8 plus 4. So that is 12 out of 37. So 12 out of 37 is my answer. And the choice that matches up with
that is answer choice B. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. If given the probability
and you need to find a value in the table, work backwards. Remember the formula. Probability is equal
to target outcomes over total outcomes. Before we do this question, go ahead and try it yourself.
Travelers were surveyed about their preferred mode of transportation and whether they typically travel
domestically or internationally. The table above shows the distribution of transportation preference
and travel type for a group of people. If one of these travelers who travels internationally is chosen
at random, the probability that the person prefers to travel by train is 1/9. What is the value of x?
If I'm noticing that this problem actually gives me the probability, the ending probability, which is 1/9. And we
know that the probability is equal to the target outcomes over the total outcomes. First, I know that
my probability is 1/9. Next, let's go ahead and find the total. The total number of people are one of the
travelers who travels internationally. That is the total group. Looking at this table, we can see that the
number of people that travel internationally are 7 plus 2 plus 1 plus x. x being the amount of people that take
the bus. So these are the total amount of people that travel internationally and the probability that
a person prefers to travel by train, this is the target. The amount of people that travel by train and
are also international are 2. So we know that the numerator is going to be 2. Now we have all the missing
parts of our formula and we can simply solve for x. We know that we can just cross multiply and that this
is going to be equal to 18 is equal to 7 plus 2 plus 1 which is 10 plus x. If we subtract 10 from both
sides, we know that x is going to be 8. So this is going to be our answer. Now let's go ahead and check
if that's right. And it is. Alternatively, you can solve this on Desmos using regression. If we know that
the probability of someone traveling by train out of the international people is 1/9, we also know that
we can set this approximately equal to whatever we are looking for. We know that out of the people that
were international, 2 like to travel by train and out of the total amount of international people, there are
7 plus 2 plus 1 plus x1 which is the variable that we are looking for. Now as you can see regression will
output x1 equals 8 which is what we got and this is a much faster way of calculating how to find the value of x.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Math - PSDA - Probability -Work w 100-E.txt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Let's talk about percentages. More specifically, let's talk about a useful tip, which is that when
we are confused, we can work with 100. Whenever no concrete numbers are given and only percent
changes are given, you can substitute 100 into the equation to make solving very easy. For the
next question, we will first use 100 as a substitute to solve the equation and then see
how it is solved conventionally. The value of a collectible trading card increased by 40%,
increased by 40% from the end of year one to the end of year two, and then decreased by 25% from the end
of year two to the end of year three. What was the net percentage increase in the value of the card
from the end of year one to the end of year three? We know that it increased by 40% and then decreased
by 25%. However, we don't have any numbers to work with, so let's go ahead and just substitute in 100
to make solving for this much easier. We're going to start with 100, and we know that this amount,
100 increased by 40%. So this means that we took 100 and we multiplied it by 1.4, and that is going
to give us 140. Then after this, we know that we took the amount, increased by 40%, which is 140,
and then what we did is we decreased that by 25%. So we took 140 and we decreased it by 25%, or in other
words, we multiplied it by 0.75 because it's 1 minus 0.25, and that is going to give us 105. So for a year,
year one, we started at 100, and for year three, we ended at 105. And now we need to know the net
percentage increase. So going from 100 to 105. Now I'm sure just from this, you can already tell that
this is going to be a 5% increase because we are simply adding 5 to 100. But we can also check this
using our percentage increase equation, new minus old over old, we have 105 minus 100, which is our new minus
old over the old, which is 100. And that's going to give us 5 over 100, or in other words, 5%. So the answer choice
that matches with what we got is answer choice A. Now let's go ahead and see if that's right. And it is. The
explanation above is how to solve it with variables. If you are interested in how to solve this question
conventionally, you can go ahead and look at this rationale.

