Let's talk about cross-text connections. So these are the most common question stems in cross-text
connections questions. Based on the text, both text 1 and text 2 would most likely agree with
which statement. And the second one, based on the text, how would the author of text 2 most likely
respond to the assertion, description, or claim in the underlined portion of text 1? Now let's get
into the actual solving steps for cross-text connections questions. Number one, always read
the question first. What's really important here is that you identify the subject of both texts and
the relationships between the passages. So what I mean by this is usually in the actual question stem,
so what we had before, if they're talking about like how would the author of text 2 most likely
respond to the assertion or whatever in the underlying portion of text 1, you want to pay
attention to the relationship between the two passages. Specifically, do you want them to agree,
or is it more likely that they might defer? Second step is to read both of the passages. And what we
recommend is starting with the responder. That way when you read the responder, you can basically kind of
role play or get into the mindset and start thinking like the responder. So as you are reading the second
passage, you can think as the responder. And usually they often, so the two passages often one, support
each other, or two, contrast. And what's really important is you pay attention to how the two texts
connect. Whether they contrast, whether there's a cause and effect, whether they're chronological,
or whether or not they're just agreeing with each other. And then always look for signal or transition words,
like however, for example, and contrast. And then watch out for attitude words as well. So like admire,
criticize, or claim, and many more. And now the third step is to dumb down the passages as much as you
can and as much as you need, and then make a prediction if applicable. For these types of questions,
it often is more difficult for students to make an actual prediction. So if you think you can make one,
make a prediction. But do not waste too much time trying to make a prediction, and waste all your time for these
questions. And number four, finally, is to go through the actual answer choices. So let's try this easy question first.
Pause the video and go through this question. Based on the text, both authors would most likely agree with which
statement. So we know that the two authors are going to agree in some sort of way. So it doesn't matter which text we read first.
So I'm going to just start with text one. On January 1st, 1808, John Jackass, so I'll just call this guy D. D declared the independence of Haiti,
making it the first black republic in the Western Hemisphere. D had led enslaved people and freed black
Haitians to a decisive victory over Napoleon's forces in the Haitian Revolution. Although the struggle was
brutal and the odds overwhelming, his leadership proved decisive. Since then, D had been recognized as a
founding hero of Haiti, commemorated on currency, national monuments, and annual celebrations of independence.
So basically what I got from this is that D declared independence of Haiti and he led them to declare this independence. And he's been recognized a lot. Now let's go to the second text.
Historian L. D. So we're going to call this guy D. U. Historian D. U. had explored the complicated
legacy of D. U. Noting that while his role in the Haitian independence is widely honored, his methods of
government after independence remain deeply controversial among scholars. So this is already a contrast compared to text one and text two. But keep in mind for this question, we need to find some sort of thing that they agree on. So let's continue reading.
Many accounts of D. Emphasize his heroism while minimizing the authoritarian measures he imposed following the revolution. D is venerated throughout Haiti and the wider Caribbean today, but a complete historical portrait requires confronting both his triumphs and his excessives. So these two passages aren't as confusing for me. So I'm going to make a quick prediction. So passage one basically says a lot of positive things about D. Two says that there's a bit of nuance to it. So I'm going to make a quick prediction. So passage one basically says a lot of positive things about D. Two says that there's a bit of nuance to it.
Although there is positives, there are negatives. But I think what they can agree on is that they are positives. So they are triumphs. So now let's go to the answer choices and look for something like that. Anseltose A. D's military strategy was primarily responsible for Napoleon's broader defeat in Europe. So straight up, they never talked about his military strategy in either passages. So we cannot conclude it was the military strategies that they would actually agree on. B. Scholars have reached a definitive consensus on the full scope of
D's governing policies. So B was talking about the nuance required in analyzing D's influence. A. Never once mentioned any of the full scope of his actual governing policies. So B is not going to be correct. Additionally, remember text two was saying how it is deeply controversial. Not that they had reached a fully consensus on the full scope of his governing policies. Now let's go to answer choice C. D is widely regarded as a figure of great historical importance to Haiti. Boom.
This looks like this looks like this looks like something they can both agree on. Now let's go to answer choice D. D was likely a fictional or mythologized figure rather than a real historical person. Okay, definitely not because we know he's a real person. And our best answer should be answer choice C, which is the correct answer.
Now pause the video and try this medium level difficulty question. Based on the text, how would the author of text two most likely respond to the claim about Ozu's absorption of Hollywood conventions made by Thompson in text one? They're asking how would the text two author respond to something very specific in text one? So therefore, let's read text two and pretend as if we were the author of text two. And we want to be focusing on this claim about Ozu's description of Hollywood conventions in
text one. So first let's read text two. Ozu was by no means a passive absorber of cinematic influences. So he was by no means. So he's most likely an active absorber. Let's keep reading. Cinema records show that he was an enthusiastic and highly discriminating viewer of American films throughout the 1920s and early 1930s. Attending screenings regularly and keeping detail notes on techniques he admired. This active engagement with Hollywood cinema shaped his early filmmaking
in ways that were anything but accidental or unconscious. Now with everything we just read in mind. Let's read text one. And what we want to be focusing on is the first claims about Ozu's absorption of Hollywood conventions. So let's start reading. Film scholar B has argued that Japanese director Uzu was largely self-taught and indifferent to the conventions of classical Hollywood filmmaking. Researcher T, however,
has observed that Ozu's early career shows clear signs of Hollywood influence. Thompson argues that because Ozu lacked formal training in film theory, he absorbed cinematic conventions unconsciously rather than through deliberate study. And that this passive absorption accounts for the Hollywood echoes in his work. So what I'm seeing here is that the both passages have a very apparent contrast. The second passage is saying that he had an active or by no means a passive absorber. While the first one is
saying that it was passive. So we want to find something. So we want to find something. So my prediction is that it needs to have a contrast. So now let's keep going to the answer choices. A. Many contemporary Japanese directors rejected Hollywood conventions in the same way Ozu eventually did. Now answer choice A is completely wrong. And this is because we never once cared about how other contemporary Japanese directors rejected or even reacted to Hollywood conventions. So we don't care about A because neither text mentions this.
B. Ozu likely engaged with Hollywood filmmaking deliberately and consciously rather than passively. This is exactly what text 2 would say about Ozu. Because again, text 2 is arguing that he was active rather than passive. So yeah, they would say that it was active. So it was deliberate and consciously rather than passive. Let's keep going to the other answer choices. C. Film practitioners who collaborated with Ozu were deeply shaped by his innovative techniques. So text 1 never even mentioned
this. And text 2 wouldn't respond this way because text 1 never even talked about film practitioners who collaborated with Ozu. So it's not going to be answer choice C. D. Ozu was unfamiliar with the narrative editing conventions used by Hollywood directors of his area. So remember, text 2 was saying he actively studied them. So there's no way he was unfamiliar. Text 2's authors would not say this. So the best answer is answer choice B. And answer choice B is the correct answer. Let's try the exact same process on a hard difficulty level question.
So pause the video and try this question. So pause the video and try this question yourself. Based on the text, how would the author of text 2 most likely characterize the underlying claim? So we look above, there's an underlying claim in text 1. So now let's read text 2 pretending to be the author and taking place of his argument. In their blurring of the boundary between oral and written expression, the vernacular passages in Hurston's fiction do indeed, so they do indeed recall the spoken language patterns.
passages in Hugh's poetry. So just taking a step back because this already sounds a little bit confusing. Normally, there's a blur in the boundary between oral and written expression. In the vernacular passages in Hurston's fiction, they do recall the spoken language passages in Hugh's poetry. Now let's continue. Yet, African American literature in the Harlem Renaissance is saturated with this technique. The integration of oral tradition into written form was a collective aesthetic commitment among Black
writers of the Black writers of the era, rooted in the broader project of affirming the validity of Black vernacular culture. Hurston's use of spoken vernacular reflects not only Hughes' example, but also this shared artistic and political agenda. So what I got from the remainder of this passage is that Hurston's use of spoken vernacular reflects not just getting inspiration from Hughes, but also from a shared artistic and political agenda, most likely from the collective Black writers.
So now with that in mind and taking the argument from text 2, let's look at the underlying portion first. These passages point to Hughes' direct and primary influence on Hurston's literary voice. So what I'm seeing here is that text 2 is saying there's a little bit more nuance to it. That Hurston's use of spoken vernacular reflects not only Hughes' example, while text 1 is saying there's a direct and primary influence. So now I know that the correct answer choice is going to say something like, "There's still more context to it."
Or it's going to say something along the lines of, "Yo, author of text 1, you're leaving out this important portion right here." That there's something that's shared and a political agenda. So now, with that in mind, let's go to the answer choices.
Okay, so answer A sounds pretty promising. It's saying that they might overstate the degree to which Hughes' and Hurston's use of vernacular speech share meaningful stylistic similarities. But what text 2 would most likely say to the underlying portion is not that they overstate the degree, but rather that they didn't account for this second portion right here, the shared artistic and political agenda. So what text 2 would most likely say to the underlying portion is not that they overstate the degree, but rather that they didn't account for this second portion right here, the shared artistic and political agenda.
So answer choice A is going to be wrong. B. As failing to account for the broader communal literary tradition that shaped Hurston's use of vernacular speech alongside Hughes' influence. So I'm seeing here, I'm really liking B first of all. They talk about the broader communal literary tradition, which is mentioned here, in addition to Hughes' influence. So, so far, I'm loving B. Let's go to answer choice C. As overlooking significant structural and tonal differences,
Well, okay, they never talked about structural and tonal differences. So we're not going to pick answer choice C. D. As itself being indebted to the tradition of oral storytelling that both Hughes and Hurston drew upon in their respective bodies of work. So what I don't like about answer choice D is it's saying that it is indebted to the tradition. What answer choice D does really well that I noticed is that they do a really good job of recycling vocabulary. So they say tradition, they say oral storytelling, drew upon bodies of work. They say tradition, they say oral storytelling, drew upon bodies of work. They say tradition, they say oral storytelling, drew upon bodies of work. They say tradition, they say oral storytelling, drew upon bodies of work. They say tradition, they say oral storytelling, drew upon bodies of work.
They do a really good job of recycling actual information and words from the text, but they never described anything as being indebted to the tradition. So answer choice D is going to be incorrect. And the best answer is going to be answer choice B, which is the correct answer. So overall, what you really need to take away from this is number one, make sure you are always reading the question first and identifying the subject of both texts. So if there is an author that is responding to another one, make sure to read the author that is responding first. That way, you can
take on the mindset and the thoughts of that author. And next be extremely literal and do your best to understand the passages as you read rather than waiting for the really end where you realize, oh shoot, I lowkey do not remember anything I just read. So understand as you read and then make a prediction as best as you can before going to the actual answer choices. If done correctly, and if practiced enough, you will get a lot better and it will become a lot faster to you.
