Let's talk about central ideas and details. So this falls under the overall category of
information and ideas and these are the most common question stems. Which choice best states
the main idea of the text? What does the text most strongly suggest about, according to the text,
based on the text, and it can be most reasonably be inferred from the text, blah blah blah. Do you
notice anything in common about literally all of the question prompts? Hopefully you noticed it,
but every single one of them referenced the text. What this means is that every single question prompt
requires you to number one, understand the text, and number two, refer to the text for the answer.
It's as simple as that, but just because it's simple doesn't mean it's easy. Sometimes.
So let's get into the actual steps to answering these types of questions. Number one, always read
the full question. Number two, read the full passage, but especially pay attention to the first and the
last sentences. They often contain the main idea and/or they usually support or contrast each other.
And if there is a contrast, this is incredibly important for the main idea. Number three, as you
read the passage, summarize and paraphrase the text in your own words as you read. Then have a general idea
of your answer to the question before you look at the answer choices. For this question type specifically,
you don't really need to make a prediction, but just have a very thorough understanding of the actual
passage. And number four, ask yourself, what is the author trying to teach or just say in general? And be
wary of answer choices that are too specific or extreme, because remember that is a common SAT trap.
And it's going to be especially apparent for this type of question type. So let's try out that process
for an easy question. Pause the video and first try the question yourself. Step one, read the question. Which choice
best states the main idea of the text. Now that we know this is a main idea question, let's just start
reading the passage, but again have extra focus on the first and last sentence. Chromatic flashing is a
collective defense behavior that researchers have observed in peacock mantis shrimp colonies. When
chromatic flashing, groups of shrimps rapidly cycle through vivid color patterns in what appears to be a
coordinated display. This defense is triggered when rival fiddler crabs approach a colony and appears to deter
the crabs from advancing. Researchers hypothesize that chromatic flashing is a specialized defense response to
fiddler crabs, since it is not observed when other larger predators, such as more red eels, approach the
colony. So what I got is taking a step back from the passage. The main idea of the passage is that these shrimp
colonies use chromatic flashing only against fiddler crabs and not against other predators. Now moving on
to the answer choices. A. Researchers are unsure how peacock mantis shrimp defend against predators
larger than fiddler crabs. Although they mentioned at the end that they don't use chromatic flashing
against other predators, the focus or the main idea of the text was not about how they were unsure. So,
A. Although it could be true, it is not the main idea of the text. B. Researchers think that chromatic
flashing in peacock mantis shrimp is a specific defense against fiddler crabs. So this is literally
perfect with what I got from the main idea of the text. Let's check the answer to a C. Fiddler crabs are
known to be the main predator of peacock mantis shrimp. Although this could be true, they never mentioned first
that fiddler crabs are the main predator. They never mentioned it's the main predator of the shrimp. But what is
also really important is that this is again not the main idea of the text. The main idea of this passage
has something to do with chromatic flashing only being used against the fiddler crabs and not other
predators. So answer choice C is wrong. D. Several different species of marine animals use chromatic
flashing to defend against fiddler crabs. So this is just straight up false. The passage is only talking
about the shrimp colonies, not several different species. So because this portion is wrong, the entire answer choice
is wrong. Again, part right, part wrong. So the correct answer should be answer choice B. And answer choice B is the correct answer.
So now let's try this with a medium difficulty level question. So pause the video and try this question yourself.
So step number one. Always read the question first. Which choice best states the text's main idea about Nengudi?
So from this question stem itself, we know that we have to focus on whoever Nengudi is. So now let's read the passage.
In many of her installations, artist Senga Nengudi, so this is where we see where she is. So I'm gonna just
ignore the first part of her name. Nengudi uses complex, non-representational forms rather than
lifelike depictions to evoke human experiences and social conditions. So from this alone, it already
sounds like it's already describing Nengudi and it sounds like a main idea. She uses complex,
non-representational forms rather than lifelike depictions to evoke human experiences and social conditions. So with that in mind, let's continue. In her early work, RSVP, Nengudi explored themes of the human body and physical stress by stretching and knotting nylon mesh stockings weighted with sand, creating forms that, while suggestive of human limbs, are radically distorted and material focused. What we see here is they give an example of this main idea from sentence one.
Now let's keep reading. And her large-scale installation Warp Trance 2018 commemorates the legacy of enslaved African-American workers by using twisted ropes and suspended panels of gods that create layered dream-like space. So from this question itself, sentences two and three are just given an example of the world.
So we should be looking for a main idea that pretty much talks about her using complex forms for her art rather than any lifelike depictions. So now let's go to the answer choices. A. She often evokes her subjects using a style that is abstract rather than realistic. Straight away, I'm loving A. That sounds exactly right. She evokes her subjects using a style that's abstract, which is complex, notice how it's literally just a synonym, rather than realistic.
And notice how this is also a synonym. Lifelike and realistic are basically synonyms in this case. So right now I'm loving A. B. She uses different kinds of materials depending on the deem she plans to explore. This could be true, but remember the main idea is that she uses complex rather than lifelike depictions, not the specific material. So it's not going to be B. C. She tends to base her art on social and historical subjects rather than personal ones. So this is not going to be B.
D. She has shifted her approach to installation art over time with her works becoming increasingly large in scale. So this is just saying that she's been doing more installation art over time and also with larger scale, which again is not the main idea of the passage. So the correct answer should be answer choice A. And the correct answer is A.
Now we move on to hard difficulty level questions. So pause the video and try the question yourself. First step, read the question. Which choice best states the main idea of the text? So we know this is a main idea question, so we have to read the entire passage. So let's read the passage paying attention to the first and last sentence.
So taking a step back and doing a quick summary, you're saying in these two sentences that usually there's an intuitive sense that we should keep our promises. But if this intuition is correct, what is it that allows us or makes it so that human beings are not going to be able to keep our promises?
So now let's continue. A. D. has advanced one answer by appealing to a duty to respect others. Autonomy. Relying on broken promises constrains a person's ability to plan and act freely. And thus, we ought not to undermine reasonable reliance and our commitment to the other. And then we're going to be able to keep our promises. So let's continue. A. D. has advanced one answer by appealing to a duty to respect others. Autonomy.
Relying on broken promises constrains a person's ability to plan and act freely. And thus, we ought not to undermine reasonable reliance on our commitments unless doing so prevents a greater constraint on someone's autonomy or on otherwise impermissible outcome.
So taking a step back, again, we're looking for the main idea. The main idea is that it is intuitive that people should keep their promises. But if they're not going to be able to keep their promises, they're not going to be able to keep their promises. So let's continue.
So taking a step back, again, we're looking for the main idea. The main idea is that it is intuitive that people should keep their promises. But this person has advanced an idea that explains why that might be. So now let's go to the answer choices. A. One potential means of justifying opposition to promise breaking is that Diallo's argument that we have an obligation to respect other people's autonomy that entails a commitment to keeping promises except in circumstances.
So right now I'm loving A because it accurately describes the main idea of the text. Let's check answer choice B. Many people have an intuitive sense that promise breaking is sometimes permissible, but lack a principled way to identify those circumstances. And Diallo's argument may help resolve that problem.
So B. This represents the text, saying that many people have an intuitive sense that promise breaking is sometimes permissible, but lack a principled way to identify those circumstances. This portion right here, that they lack a principled way to identify those circumstances. This portion right here, that they lack a principled way to identify those circumstances.
that they lack a principled way to identify those circumstances is not what the passage is referring to.
And additionally, Diallo's argument, they didn't talk about how it may help resolve that problem,
but rather is just an answer to the question they mentioned above.
So it's not going to be answer choice B because they misrepresent the passage.
Answer choice C, Diallo's argument suggests that if we have a duty to respect other people's autonomy,
and if broken promises constrain autonomy, then we have an inviolable duty to keep all promises.
So answer choice C straight up contradicts Diallo's actual argument.
It's saying that there are certain situations where we can break promises,
not that we have an inviolable duty to keep every single promise.
So it's not going to be answer choice C.
D, Diallo's argument shows that if our intuition that promise breaking is sometimes permissible is correct,
then it is unclear whether any grounds for opposing promise breaking exist.
So answer choice D is incorrect because what Diallo was trying to say is that there is reason that we could break it.
But what they're saying answer choice D is that if our intuition that promise breaking is sometimes permissible is correct,
it is unclear whether any ground for opposing promise breaking exists,
which is pretty much the opposite of what she's saying.
So answer choice D is going to be correct.
And answer choice A is our best answer.
And answer choice A is the correct answer.
So now let's try the exact same process for yet another hard question.
So pause the video and try this question out yourself.
What is the text most strongly suggest about conventional cathode fabrication?
And we're being asked what is the text most strongly suggest about this thing right here.
So we need to pay special attention to what conventional cathode fabrication is.
So let's start with the first sentence.
In a paper about lithium-ion battery cathode production, parentheses, one of the several steps involved in manufacturing rechargeable batteries,
P described a method for fabricating the cathode using a dry electrode process.
Conventional cathode fabrication is accomplished using a liquid slurry of active particles and binding agents.
The process can result in a loss of up to 75% of the slurry material, raising the cost of manufacturing at scale,
an issue that may be eliminated by the dry electrode process, which the researchers describe as material efficient, scalable, and readily integrated into existing production lines.
So taking a step back and just summarizing the article in my own words, what I see is that this person, P, described a method for fabricating cathode using a dry electrode process.
With the conventional method, they lose 75% of the slurry material, which also results in high cost of manufacturing at scale.
But this may be eliminated.
I see they also have an uncertain word.
It may be eliminated by the process they mentioned above, the dry electrode process, which they describe as material efficient, scalable, and readily integrated into existing production lines.
But what's most important is that the question stem is asked about the conventional cathode fabrication, not the one about the dry electrode process.
So with that in mind, let's go to the answer choices.
A. It is less suitable for manufacturing large volumes of lithium-ion battery cathodes than an alternative fabrication method may be.
So I see a little bit of uncertainty here, which matches with the passage.
And this first portion is completely true.
It might be less suitable for manufacturing at a large scale than maybe this dry electrode process may be.
So for now, I'm going to keep A for now, but I'm going to continue with the other answer choices.
Answer choice B.
It is more expensive when manufacturing at scale than are processes used to fabricate cathodes and other types of rechargeable batteries.
What seems correct is it is more expensive when manufacturing at scale.
This portion sounds correct.
What is incorrect is the second portion right here.
Then are processes used to fabricate cathodes in other types of rechargeable batteries.
They never mention the other types of rechargeable batteries, nor the other processes.
So answer choice B is going to be incorrect.
C.
It typically results in a greater loss of slurier material than do other established approaches for cathode fabrication.
So this first portion, again, seems correct.
It results in a greater loss of slurier material.
But the comparison portion is incorrect.
They're talking about other established approaches for cathode fabrication, when the text never mentioned another established approach.
They're talking about another method for fabricating cathode called the dry electrode process.
But this may eliminate some of the bad stuff with the conventional and they describe it as good.
But again, this is a maybe.
What's important is that it is not an established approach.
So answer choice C is going to be incorrect.
Answer choice D.
It is imprecise in a way that limits the energy storage capacity of the lithium-ion batteries it produces.
So straight up answer choice D is wrong because they never once mentioned the energy storage capacity.
And with that, the best answer should be answer choice A.
Let's see if that is correct.
And the correct answer is answer choice A.
Now let's do another hard question.
Pause the video and try out this question yourself.
What is the main idea of the text?
Very simple.
All we're looking for is the main idea.
So let's start reading first with the context.
The following text is adapted from 1612 poem by an anonymous English author.
The poem is addressed to a close friend as if the friend were physically present.
So this sounds like it might be pretty important.
Worn with the road, I seek my welcome rest.
The gentle balm for feet long worn by miles.
But then my waking mind begins its quest.
When bone and muscle seize their weary tours.
For then my thoughts from every place I roam set forth a fervent journey back to thee
And hold my heavy eyelids far from home.
So what I'm getting from this poem, I'm going to break it down line by line.
On the actual SAT for the actual poem questions, note that you will not have this much time,
but doing practice, really take your time to really get familiar with how to break down passages literally.
And one thing I want to say with the poetry questions,
Oftentimes, especially for the harder questions, you might not understand the full passage.
And for the even harder questions, there might be full sentences you just completely don't understand.
Oftentimes with the SAT, the SAT doesn't expect you to be an English major or be familiar with classic literature.
What usually is understandable is usually the most important portions.
So let's, with that in mind, break down this question.
Worn with the road, I seek my welcome rest.
So he's worn down by the road.
So he's most likely tired and he seeks his welcome rest.
So maybe he's trying to go to sleep.
The gentle balm for feet long, worn by miles.
He's just saying his feet has been tired for walking miles.
And then he's saying like the gentle balm.
Maybe he's talking about the rest.
That's a gentle balm.
Then he's saying, but then my waking mind, so his mind is still awake, begins his quest.
Maybe he's thinking when bone and muscle sees their weary tolls.
So now he's rested.
His bone and muscles, they have stopped their weary journey.
For then my thoughts, so his thoughts, from every place I roam.
This sentence by self doesn't make that much sense, but he's talking about his thoughts.
Set forth a fervent journey back to thee.
So again, the context is especially important for this question to understand what is going on.
He's saying that his thoughts set forth a fervent journey back to thee.
Thee is most likely addressed again to this close friend.
So he's thinking about this close friend as if he might've been physically present.
So with that in mind, let's keep going.
And hold my heavy eyelids far from home.
So keep in mind, he's tired.
He wants to sleep, but something because of his thoughts,
they're holding his heavy eyelids away from home.
Maybe home is going to sleep.
Now all it's asking is the main idea of the text.
So here's my main idea.
This guy is tired.
He's tired.
He wants to sleep.
But then he's having thoughts that prevent him from going to sleep.
So now let's go to the answer choices and find something that sounds similar to my summary.
A. The speaker is asleep and dreaming about traveling to visit a friend.
So this portion right here is false because he's not yet asleep.
They say in finding direct line evidence from the passage, it literally says his thoughts, blah, blah, blah, set forth on a fervent journey back to thee and hold his eyelids far from home.
So it's not going to be answer choice A because his heavy eyelids are being held far from home.
Answer choice B. The speaker is making plans for an upcoming journey to see a friend.
So from here, from the passage, again, we know that he's tired.
He's having thoughts and he can't sleep.
He's not making plans in any sort of way.
Answer choice C. The speaker is too exhausted to continue a conversation with the friend.
This portion, the first portion, the speaker is too exhausted.
This portion is correct and it's completely true and supported by the passage.
What stands out as incorrect is the second portion, to continue a conversation with the friend.
There is no point in this passage in which he is talking with his friend and he can't continue a conversation if there is no conversation in the first place.
So this is a perfect example of part right, part wrong.
But without understanding the passage entirely, maybe when you see the first portion, you think the answer choice C may be correct.
But after understanding the passage, we know that the second portion is completely incorrect.
Therefore, answer choice C is incorrect.
Now let's look at answer choice D.
The speaker is thinking about the friend instead of immediately falling asleep.
This sounds perfectly correct with what our summary was just earlier.
So answer choice D is going to be the answer choice that we pick.
And answer choice D is the correct answer.
Pause the video and try this question.
Which choice best states the main purpose of the text?
The following text is from circa 1890 poem by fictional poet E.
Titled To the Maestro.
In this poem, the speaker is addressing a celebrated musician.
So we know that they're going to be talking about a celebrated musician.
And we just want to figure out what the main purpose of the text is.
So let's start reading.
Though with touch of gifted hand.
So he's basically complimenting his gifted hand.
Past voiced both grief and gladness rare.
So this sounds a little arbitrary, but let's just keep reading.
And sensed the longings, hopes, and fears.
So here, just taking a step back and summarizing, because we want to make sure we understand the
passage as we go.
What we want to avoid is reading through the whole passage and then thinking, wow, what did
I just read?
So we want to actually summarize as we go.
Especially for the poetry questions.
So he's saying with his touch of a gifted hand, he's voiced.
So he's talked about both grief and gladness.
And sensed the longings, hopes, and fears.
So he talked about a bunch of different emotions through his music.
Now let's continue.
So what he's talking about here is that he understands humans.
And he's displayed grief, gladness, and sensed the longings, hopes, and fears through his music.
And then he also is talking about souls laid open beyond repair.
He's talking about the speech of rivers.
And then he read, he can read every hill and hollow's tone.
Even the wind has answered to thee with secrets murmured wild and free.
Basically what I'm getting here is that through his music, he has understood and he has displayed
a bunch of human emotion.
This might not be entirely correct, but this is already a really good understanding of the
passage.
So with that in mind, let's go to the actual answer choices.
A. To praise, this part sounds correct so far, to praise a certain musician for being especially
perceptive about human emotion and the natural world.
Wow.
That actually makes perfect sense.
This first portion right here, we identified that it's human emotions.
The second portion made a little bit less sense, but with this answer choice, it actually
sounds perfectly correct.
He's especially perceptive as well about the natural world.
He's talking about rivers.
He's talking about hills, hollow's tone, the wind murmuring secrets to him.
So with that, answer choice A seems incredibly correct.
But let us continue.
Answer choice B. To establish that a certain musician has studied a wide variety of subjects
extensively.
With answer choice B, maybe it's true that he has studied a wide variety of subjects extensively,
but that is not the main purpose of the text.
Never once did they mention that he studied and never once did they mention a bunch of subjects,
nor extensively.
So answer choice B would be an assumption.
So B is incorrect.
C. To highlight a certain musician's careful and methodical performance preparation process.
With this answer choice, they never mentioned his actual process for preparing for performance
preparation.
So if I were to ask you, what is his process based on reading this text?
How would you answer it?
You probably wouldn't.
And that is because they never talked about it.
Therefore, answer choice C is going to be incorrect.
Let's go to answer choice D.
To recount a cherished memory of an afternoon in nature spent with a certain musician.
Answer choice D is referring to a very specific memory.
But the author was not recounting a cherished memory and he was not talking about a very specific afternoon spent with the musician.
Instead, he's more so just praising this musician.
So answer choice D is going to be incorrect and answer choice A is going to be the answer we pick.
And answer choice A is the correct answer.
The main thing I want you to take away, especially with the poetry type questions, is to do your best to break down the literal meaning of the passage.
Keep in mind with the SAT, you don't have as much time as you would in normal school, where the teacher often spends days or even weeks on just a singular poem or a book.
And with that, the teacher often gives you a bunch of context about the author, his upbringing, the context behind when the story is written, what happened after, in order for you to make a thorough analysis of poetry.
On the SAT, you do not have that time.
With that, you must stay really literal with the passage and really pay attention to the portions you can understand.
If you cannot understand a portion, don't try to make a huge assumption about it because oftentimes you might use outside knowledge or even completely make the wrong assumption.
And remember, assumptions are bad, especially for the reading section.
So stay literal with the literal meaning of the actual poem, paraphrase and summarize as much as you can and often as you need, and then go to the actual answer choices.
Do not immediately go to the answer choices without a thorough understanding of the actual passage.
More often than not, it will throw you off and make you pick a distracted answer that sounds right instead of being able to prove the answer is correct.
Pause the video and try this question.
Based on the text, what challenge do humans sometimes experience?
Okay, now let's go to the text.
The following text is adapted from Langston Hughes' 1926 poem, Caged Birds Lament.
So they're talking about, let's break it down because already this sounds already a little bit confusing.
Something is in iron bars and somehow we are in ours and we each watch each other's grief and count the hours, each pitying each other's pain.
Let's continue.
So now it's shifting to talk about the actual humans, us.
To ease the weight of his own chain, man offers little more than hollow speech.
So this, I don't even completely know what this means, but that's okay. Let's continue.
Save that his prison walls have broader reach.
So even if we are in a cage, even if humans are in a cage, we have broader reach compared to what the other thing is or whatever they is.
So let's pretend this is the other cage.
Humans or man has broader reach, while the other one, so I'll put T for they for now because we don't know what it is, has smaller reach.
Let's continue.
So now we know that they're mentioning day in terms of animals or specifically an eagle.
This doesn't make too much sense. But what we're seeing here is that they're comparing humans and eagles or animals.
And they say that they're very similar in a way that they each trapped in a prison walls, but humans have greater reach. But they might also have some visions that are yet unborn. We don't know what visions are. So let's not try to extract anything special from the text. Let's go straight up into the answer choices. A. They cannot form meaning.
meaningful relationships with animals because of a lack of empathy. So answer choice A is going to be correct because that's not the challenge they're trying to say that humans experience. They're saying that humans are similar to animals in a way that they might have fierce unbounded will, but they don't know what their actual vision is. Their vision is yet unborn. They're not talking about the actual vision of the actual vision of the human beings.
They're not talking about humans trying to form meaningful relationships with animals. And they're definitely not talking about a lack of empathy. So let's go to answer choice B.
They cannot stay focused on long term plans because of a lack of discipline. Answer choice B is also going to be incorrect. And this is because they never once mentioned long term plans, nor a lack of discipline. So B is incorrect. C. They give up easily when confronted with obstacles because of a lack of courage. So here we see they talk about, again, eagles and eagles.
C. They both have fierce unbounded will. And we know the simile because they say right here has in some person his reflection still. So they have fierce unbounded will. So therefore, they never once mentioned a lack of courage. A lack meaning no courage. And they never mentioned giving up easily either when confronted with obstacles. They never mentioned obstacles either. So C is incorrect. D. They hold ambitions that go unrealized.
C. They realize because of certain constraints they cannot escape. So this sounds correct because they're talking about a prison wall. So this could be constraints they cannot escape. And then ambitions. They're talking about visions yet unborn. And then they go unrealized because they haven't been born yet. So D is the logically correct answer from the passage. And the correct answer is answer choice D.
