Let's talk about command of evidence. What we're first going to talk about is the command of
evidence textual questions, and these are the common question stems. Which finding, if true,
would most directly support or weaken the researcher's hypothesis, conclusion, or claim?
Which statement, if true, would most likely, again, weaken or support the researchers,
slash scientists, slash students' claim? Which quote would be the most effective evidence to,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Which quotation most effectively illustrates hypothesis,
conclusion, or claim? What you notice with these is usually, for these questions, there's either going
to be a hypothesis, conclusion, or claim, and you want to weaken or support it. So what's really
important for this question is we focus on finding, number one, what the actual hypothesis, conclusion,
or claim is, and then figure out how we can support or weaken it. So it's really important that you be
really literal with the actual question stem. So now let's go over the exact steps to answering these
questions. And number one is to always read the full question for keywords. You want to look for whether
or not you want to weaken or support the actual claim. And of course, you want to find out exactly
what we're weakening or supporting. So it could be a claim, it could be a conclusion, it could be a
hypothesis, or it could be something else. Just pay attention to exactly what you want to look for.
Next, read the full passage and paraphrase every one to two sentences and focus on locating the keywords.
So the author's arguments, such as the hypothesis, conclusion, or claim. Three, create your own vague
idea of what the answer choice might be. And then number four, go to the answer choices and eliminate
incorrect answer choices and choose the correct answer. Now I'll show you this process for easy,
medium, and hard questions. So let's start with the easy question. Again, always read the question first.
Which quotation, so we're looking for a quote, from a survey respondent would best illustrate the
student's conclusion. So we need to identify the student's conclusion. And we're looking for a
quotation from a survey respondent that would best illustrate the student's conclusion. So now we know
that we need to focus on a student conclusion and we know the type of question this is, which is
command of evidence textual. So we know we need to read the entire question. So let's start reading.
A group of residents in a neighborhood in Detroit recently launched a community mural project
covering blank walls of local buildings with original artwork. So here's what I got from this sentence.
And for me, I'm going to just summarize after this one sentence, but you can choose to do it after two or
three or as many as you want. But I'm going to summarize it right now just for the sake of the
demonstration. So it's just a group of residents in Detroit that started a community mural project.
Let's continue. Participants agreed to donate through time collaboratively to design and paint the
murals. Students at a nearby high school surveyed some of the participants as part of a civics project
to understand the project's impact. So we know that there are participants that have kind of volunteered to paint these murals and that students are surveying the participants to understand the impact. That's my summary. The students concluded that the mural project benefited the broader community by building a new... So now this is really important. Remember how we're looking for the students' conclusion. What we see in the passage is that they said the students concluded. So we know this portion after the concluded word is the actual conclusion. So let's pay special attention.
to that. The students concluded that the mural project benefited the broader community by building new connections between the participating artists and residents who were not involved in the painting. So now we need to find some sort of quotation that demonstrates that the project benefited, so again a positive word, benefited the broader community by building new connections between participating artists and residents who were not involved in the actual painting.
So now let's go to the actual answer choices. A. One of our first debates was deciding which color palette would best represent the neighborhood's history. We spent weeks researching local archives. So this is just a quote about how they actually decided which color palette to choose. And this is not saying that it benefited the broader community by again building new connections. So we're not going to pick A. B. As we painted the mural on Maple Street, neighbors who had never spoken to us before started stopping by to share stories about the neighborhood. We've stayed
in contact with several of them ever since. So this sounds like a really good answer to us. They say neighbors who have never spoken to us before. So they were not involved in the actual painting. They stopped by to share stories about the neighborhood. So it seems like it's building new connections. And they stayed in contact with several of them ever since. Again building new connections. So I'm liking B so far but I'm not going to pick it yet until I go through the rest of the answer choices. C. I love being outside and working with my hands. Especially
especially during the warmer months when the weather cooperates. So it's not going to be answer choice C. Because again they're not talking about how it benefited the broader community. And they never talked about building connections. Nor about residents who were not involved in the painting. So let's go to answer choice D. Seeing the finished mural every morning on my walk to the bus stop fills me with a deep sense of community pride. I helped make that. And it's beautiful. What I noticed here is that they said I helped make that. Again remember. Referring to the exact wording of the student's conclusion.
They want to conclude that the mural project benefited the broader community of people. Even people that were not involved in the painting. So answer choice D is talking about someone who was involved. So it's not answer choice D. And the correct answer should be answer choice B. Let's see if that's correct.
And answer choice B is correct.
What's really important for all SAT questions as you saw me demonstrate just earlier is again referring to the exact wording of the actual question. And not using any outside knowledge. Let's try this next easy question. Pause the video and try this one on your own.
So let's start with the first step. Always read the question. Which quotation from the necklace most effectively illustrates the claim. So straight away we know that we need to read the passage looking for exactly what this claim is before we can find something that supports it. So let's do just that.
So step number two. Read the passage. The necklace is an 1884 short story by Guy. So we'll just call this G.M. Because he has a very long name and we don't want to waste time just trying to pronounce the name. In this story the protagonist. So we have another name. Let's just name him M.A.
M.A. is described as feeling a deep sense of contentment and joy at a particular moment. So now referring back to the question we know that this is the claim. The protagonist is described as feeling a deep sense of contentment and joy at a particular moment. So there's two key things we need to look for. Number one positive emotions of contentment and joy. And number two that there is a particular moment. So now let's go into the answer choices.
A. She sat down before a mirror and looked at herself once more in her glory. What I noticed here immediately is they never talked about the actual emotions she was feeling. They don't talk about this deep sense of commitment and joy. But they do kind of talk about a particular moment. But because they didn't talk about this first portion. Ancestors A is wrong. Ancestors B. They dismissed the maid. They changed their lodgings. They rented a garret under the roof. So they never once mentioned an emotion. So we're going to eliminate that one.
C. She danced with intoxication with passion. Intoxicated by pleasure. Forgetting all. In the triumph of her beauty. In the glory of her success.
What I noticed about C is they do have positive emotions. Talk about passion and pleasure. But what they do also talk about is intoxication and forgetting all.
So this sounds more like ecstasy and a very crazy or even overwhelming feeling instead of a deep sense of contentment and joy. So for now I'm going to put a question mark on C. But I'm going to read answer choice D. D. She was the prettiest of all. Elegant, gracious, smiling, and crazy with joy.
So for this question I'm liking D a lot. They're talking about a deep sense of contentment and joy when they say that she's smiling and crazy with joy.
They're also talking about a particular moment because they're talking about a moment of hers where she's smiling and crazy with joy. So the answer we're going to pick here is answer choice D. Let's see if that is correct.
The correct answer is answer choice D. Now we move on to a medium question. Pause this video first and try it yourself.
So first step let's read the question. Which finding, if true, would most directly weaken the underlined claim? So just from this question stem alone, we know that instead of supporting, we need to find something that actually weakens. And for this question specifically, we only need to weaken the underlined claim, which looking above, it's right here. But we still need to read the entire passage, but just pay special attention to the actual underlying portion. So let's do that.
During a surveying expedition in the 1990s, researchers uncovered a roughly 45,000 year old fragment of eagle talon bearing seven thin scratches at a central site in Europe, once occupied by early Homo sapiens. Although many assume that only later agricultural civilizations developed the practice of tracking and recording quantities, one anthropologist argues that this artifact may be evident that early Homo sapiens were also capable of recording numerical information.
So now let's continue. The scratches are unevenly spaced, but run in roughly the same direction. And chemical and natural natural, and chemical and natural, and chemical and natural, and natural, and natural, and natural, and natural, and natural, and natural, and natural. And so, we know that in the 1990s, they found an eagle talon with seven thin scratches.
Many assumed that only later agricultural civilizations developed the practice of tracking and recording quantities, but someone argues that this artifact may be evidence that early Homo sapiens were also capable of recording quantities. So now let's continue.
The scratches are unevenly spaced, but run in roughly the same direction. And chemical analysis of the residue inside each groove confirms they were made using a single flint blade. According to the anthropologist, this indicates that the marks were created in a single session by one person deliberately tallying a count of something.
So for this question, let's make a quick prediction. Remember that we're trying to weaken the underlying claim. And the claim is that this indicates that the marks were created in a single session by one person deliberately tallying a count of something. So in order to weaken it, an answer choice that we might be looking for is something that indicates the marks were created maybe in multiple sessions, or even by multiple people, just something that weakens the claim. So with that in mind, let's go to the actual answer choices.
Answer choice A. Evenly spaced parallel marks are a defining feature of numerical recording systems used by ancient Mesopotamian civilizations. So answer choice A straight up doesn't even do anything to weaken this underlying claim. So it's not going to be answer choice A.
Answer choice A. More than seven roughly parallel scratches made with a different flint blade are present on a second eagle talon fragment found at the same site. So answer choice B doesn't do anything to weaken the claim. Just because we found another one doesn't really say anything much about this one. And again, we want to weaken the claim for this specific eagle talon they found. So it's not going to be answer choice B. Answer choice C. Creating marks on bone using the type of flint blade available to early homo sapiens required multiple points.
Answer choice A. Typically spread across several separate sessions. So this already is really close to my actual prediction. The fact that they said that creating marks required multiple attempts usually across several separate sessions. Which is directly weakening this underlying claim. So for now, I'm going to leave answer choice C. And then read answer choice D. D. Decorative carvings found at another early homo sapiens site in central Europe.
Answer choice C. And then read answer choice D. D. Decorative carvings found at another early homo sapiens site in central Europe.
Answer choice C. And then read answer choice D. D. Decorative carvings found at another early homo sapiens site in central Europe.
Answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C.
Answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. D. Decorative carvings found at another early homo sapiens site in central Europe.
Answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. D. D. Decorative carvings found at another early homo sapiens site in central Europe.
Answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. And then read answer choice C. D. D. Decorative carvings found at another early homo sapiens site in central Europe.
typically spread across several separate sessions. So this already is really close to my actual prediction. The fact that they said that creating marks required multiple attempts usually across several separate sessions, which is directly weakening this underlying claim. So for now, I'm going to leave answer choice C and then read answer choice D.
Decorative carvings found at another early Homo sapiens site in Central Europe primarily consists of unevenly spaced parallel lines. So similar to answer choice B, this is talking about another different site where they talk about a different one containing unevenly spaced parallel lines. But again, for this question specifically, we're only worried about our own eagle talon and we want to find something that weakens the underlying claim about this singular eagle talon.
So answer choice D is not going to be correct. And we're going to pick answer choice C. Let's see if that's correct. And that is the correct answer. Pause the video and try out this question yourself.
First step, always read the question. Which quotation from The Turning Road most effectively illustrates the claim? So we know again, we need to look for a quotation and find out what the actual claim is from the passage. Step two, let's go read the actual question.
The Turning Road is a 1920s poem by fictional poet C. V. In the poem, the speaker describes a recurring pattern of hopeful beginnings that consistently give away to a sense of loss and missed opportunities.
So now let's go back to the question and we want to find the claim. The claim is right here. The speaker describes a recurring pattern. So we need something to occur multiple times of hopeful beginnings. So again, positive beginnings that consistently. So again, they just again and again, give way to a sense of loss and missed opportunities.
So we want a recurring pattern. So just repeated happy, but then they always go to negative and this would be our prediction. Let's go to the answer choices. What hollow wind is this that blows across the field where no harvest grows and fills my chest with winter woes too sharp to name?
Biggest thing we noticed here is that they talk a lot about the sense of loss and missed opportunity is very negative, but they never talked about anything about hopeful beginnings.
There was no positive meaning in this first answer choice. So it's not going to be A. B. The rain has stilled its silver fall. The thunder lost its echoed call. Awaiting hush has draped the hall. A breath, a pause.
Again with this one, there is no such indicator of a hopeful beginnings. They start kind of negative. So it's not going to be answer choice B. C. It speaks of roads I did not take, of promises I failed to make, of gifts I gave for lesser sake of dawns unmet.
So again with this one, I still see nothing about a hopeful beginnings. So we're not going to pick answer choice C. Now hopefully answer choice D is the correct one. D. And so the seasons come and go. Each spring arrives with seeds to sow.
Immediately I'm seeing hopeful beginning because spring comes with seeds to sow.
Now let's continue. And each fall fades with only woe, bound to what's gone. So immediately I'm liking D. It's talking about seasons that come and go. So it's repeated. And each spring arrives with seeds to sow, which is the hopeful beginnings. And each fall fades with only woe, which seems like the sense of loss and missed opportunity, bound to what's gone. So the best answer here is going to be answer choice D.
Let's check out answer. And answer choice D is the correct answer.
What's really important again, as you notice, is I again refer to the exact wordings of the passage. And what you will notice is that answer choice D is sort of just a paraphrasing of the actual passage. It's saying the exact same thing, but just reworded.
Answer choice D is A, B, and C are perfect examples of the part right and part wrong. What's correct about them is they consistently give way to a sense of loss. But what they never mention is the portion about the hopeful beginnings. So A, B, and C are going to be wrong.
Now we get to a hard level question. So pause the video and try this question yourself. Always start with the first step. Read the question. Which finding, if true, would most strongly support the scholar's claim?
So we're looking for something that supports and also the scholar's claim. So let's read the passage and find the scholar's claim. Let's read the passage.
The poet and writer Langston Hughes, which is called L, served as a guest literary editor and cultural advisor at a small but prominent Chicago-based publishing imprint, Meridian Press, from 1948 to 1959.
A scholar asserts, so now this is a keyword that indicates that whatever follows is going to be actual claim because he's asserting this.
So scholar asserts that one of Hughes likely aims during his tenure was to expand the number of Latin American authors whose work was available to English speaking readers.
So taking a step back, what we notice about the scholar's claim is that he wanted to expand the number of Latin American authors.
So we want to find some sort of finding that shows that an action he took, and this is going to be my prediction, is that whatever action he took served to expand the number of Latin American authors.
So let's go to the actual answer choices.
Answer choice A. The proportion of Meridian Press's annual publications that were translated works by Latin American authors increased steadily through the 1950s.
So now, just seeing this portion right here and taking a quick glance at the other answer choices, I see a bunch of dates that kind of differ.
So now my question is, maybe this portion might be the part that's not true. So let's go back to the passage and find the date.
So they said that he served as the guest literary editor from 1948 to 1959. And what we see here is that the proportion of Meridian Press's annual publications translated by Latin American authors increased steadily throughout the 1950s.
So this is 1950 to 1959. And they're saying they increased, which is exactly what the passage and the claim is saying.
They're saying that he tried to expand the number of Latin American authors whose work was available to blah, blah, blah.
So right now I'm loving answer choice A. But for now, let's keep going through the other answer choices just to make sure nothing else is more correct than answer choice A.
Answer choice B. Latin American authors interviewed in the 1960s and 70s frequently cited Hughes' poetry as a major influence on their own writing.
So answer choice B is definitely going to be wrong because again, referring to the exact words of the claim, we're looking for an assertion or something that supports the assertion that Hughes' aim during his tenure, so during the time he was at the Meridian Press, was to expand the number of Latin American authors.
Answer choice B is first of all talking about the 1960s and 70s and is not talking about the actual aims of Hughes.
It's talking about other authors after Hughes' time at the Meridian Press. So it's not going to be answer choice B.
Answer choice C. Hughes' own poetry collections published after 1959 reached significantly larger audiences and received more critical recognition than those published before 1959.
So what we notice here again, they're not talking about his time as the editor for the Meridian Press. They're talking about afterwards. So it's not going to be answer choice C.
Answer choice D. Manuscripts that Hughes reviewed during his time at Meridian Press showed consistent thematic and stylistic similarities to one another.
To me, this sounds like a fun fact, but it doesn't show that his goal was to expand the number of Latin American authors.
So it's not going to be answer choice D. They're just talking about how all of his works during the times, the ones that he reviewed, showed consistent similarities, which we do not care about.
So I think the answer is A. Let's see if this is right. And the correct answer is answer choice A. Pause the video and try this question.
In first step, let's read the question. Which finding from the follow-up experiment? So if they are talking about experiments or multiple, we want to pay attention to the follow-up experiment.
So which finding from the follow-up experiment with the fine dining restaurant and the budget diner, if true, would most directly support the conclusion presented in the text.
So we're looking for something that supports and also looking for a conclusion. And then we know that there's going to be a fine dining restaurant and a budget diner.
So now let's go to the actual passage, knowing that we need to find the actual conclusion and find something that supports it.
In a series of experiments, economics, so we're going to call them R&D. Economists R&D demonstrated that the word to space ratio on a restaurant menu, specifically the white space surrounding each dish description, can shape diners' perception of a dish's quality.
So this might sound a little confusing, so I'm going to just do a quick doodle on the side. On the actual SAT, you would be doing this on your scratch paper.
So they're talking about the word to space ratio. So if we just have a random menu, they're saying that the word to space ratio, for now we don't know what the actual relationship is, but we know that it can shape diners' perception of a dish's quality.
So let's keep reading and then maybe we might want to edit this picture just so that we can understand the passage a little bit better.
Participants in several experiments consistently rated the same dishes, so the same dishes, as significantly higher in quality when the menus had low word to space ratio than when it was high.
So this sounds a little bit confusing, so let's just figure this out with our picture. So I'm going to go on the side and write this out.
So we have low word, so I'm going to say minus words, plus space. This results in significantly higher perceptions of quality, which means the opposite is also true.
If there are more words and less space, then there is a lower quality. So let's write this out for both of them.
So now with this in mind, let's keep reading. In a follow-up experiment, so now this is the portion that is incredibly important.
In a follow-up experiment, however, Moreno and Park presented identical menus at an upscale fine dining restaurant and a casual budget diner.
The result of this experiment suggests that a restaurant context associated with low cost dining may moderate the effect of Moreno and Park observed in the earlier experiments.
So let's break down exactly what this means. They're saying in a follow-up experiment, they brought identical menus to an upscale fine dining restaurant and a casual budget diner.
But what they found is that this effect that we found right here, the result of this experiment suggests that restaurant context associated with low cost dining.
So the budget diner may moderate. So that just means may decrease or affect the effect that they observed in the earlier experiments.
So here's the prediction I'm going to be making. So number three, we're going to make our prediction.
Our prediction is what we're going to find is that at the budget diner, even though there is going to be less words and more space,
the associated increase in quality will not be as high when compared to the results of the fine dining restaurant.
So now let's go to the actual answer choices. Number four, go to the actual answer choices and see if anything matches our prediction.
Let's start. Answer choice eight. At the fine dining restaurant, participants rated dishes on the spacious menu as substantially higher in quality than dishes in the dense menu.
So that portion so far is correct with the passage. So this part we know is correct.
Let's read the second part. But at the budget diner. So this is what we really want to pay attention to.
At the budget diner, participants rated dishes on the spacious menu as only slightly higher in quality than dishes on the dense menu.
So what we notice here is that at the fine dining restaurant, the effects were the same. But at the budget diner, they rated it only slightly higher than dishes on the dense menu. Therefore, I'm really liking answer choice A right now because it's exactly consistent with our prediction and the passage.
So now let's go to answer choice B. At both the fine dining restaurant and the budget diner, participants rated dishes on the spacious menu as lower in quality than dishes on the dense menu. But the difference in perceived quality was significantly greater at the fine dining restaurant.
So what we're seeing here is that again, with the actual passage, you're saying that the effect was moderated at the budget diner. But here, they're actually changing the effects. And they're saying that for the fine dining restaurant, it actually resulted in lower quality. So it's not going to be answer choice B. The first portion is wrong.
Answer choice C. Participants rated dishes on the spacious menu at the fine dining restaurant as similar in quality to dishes on the spacious menu at the budget diner. So I noticed immediately is this comparing the spacious menu at the fine dining to the spacious menu at the budget diner. So they're not comparing the things that they should be comparing because they should be comparing the effects for the spacious with that of the dense menu. So let's continue. So far, I'm not liking answer choice C.
Answer choice D. But rated dishes on the dense menu at the fine dining restaurant as higher in quality than dishes on the dense menu. So again, they're comparing dense and dense and spacious and spacious. So it's not going to be answer choice C. So answer choice D. When menus were spacious, participants rated dishes at the fine dining restaurant as higher in quality than dishes at the budget diner. But when menus were dense, participants rated dishes at the fine dining restaurant as lower in quality than dishes at the budget diner. So answer choice D is going to be incorrect.
So that's not correct for the exact same reason as answer choice C. They're comparing the spacious menus between fine dining and budget and then comparing the dense between fine dining and budget, which is not what they should be doing according to the actual conclusion. Again, going back to answer choice A, just because this question is long and I want to make sure you understand this point. At the fine dining restaurant, participants rated dishes on the spacious menu at substantially higher in quality than dishes on the dense menu. That portion is correct. We know that having a spacious menu should
result in a higher perceived quality. What they want us to understand is that at the budget diner participants rated dishes on the spacious menu as only being slightly higher in quality than dishes on the dense menu. So at the budget diner, the effect of the early result they observed is moderated at the budget diner, which is completely correct with answer choice A. So answer choice A should be correct. And let's check that. And answer choice A is the correct answer. Pause the video and try this question.
Step one. Read the question. Which quotation from Mules and Men most effectively illustrates the claim? So for this question, we know that we're looking for a quotation and then we're also looking for the claim and something that illustrates. So you can think of this as support. So let's go to the actual passage. Let's read it. Mules and Men is a 1935 collection of folklore by Zora Neale Hurston. So let's just call her Z. In the book, we'll say Z, suggests that upon encountering the folktales she collected with black communities in the American South, she felt an immediate
and sometimes surprising personal sense of cultural familiarity. So the claim I'm getting is that she just suggests that upon encountering folktales she collected from blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, she felt an immediate, so this is pretty important, immediate and even sometimes surprising personal sense of cultural familiarity.
So now let's go to the answer choice that we want to look for an answer choice that literally mentions these exact same things. So an immediate and sometimes surprising sense of cultural familiarity. Start with answer choice A. These stories represent the accumulated imaginative wealth of a people, the living record of their laughter, their struggle, and their survival across generations.
So I noticed immediately is answer choice never talked about her personal feelings of or personal sense of cultural familiarity. Nor does it talk about any immediate feeling. So it's not going to be answer choice A. Answer choice A seems like it's more so talking about historical significance of this community. Answer choice B. From the time I was small, these tales have been moved through me like something half remembered.
So immediately this sounds like it could be half remembered. So immediately this sounds like it could be correct. Half remembered. Sounds maybe like a personal sense. She's feeling like she recognized what this is, like half familiarity. So now let's keep going.
They rose up from towns I had never visited, told by voices I had never heard, yet I recognized them immediately. So wow, we have the exact same word. Immediately. So this could be recycled word, but this could be correct. So far it sounds correct. Immediately as my own.
As belonging to me and to my people. So, so far C sounds, or answer choice B sounds immediately correct. Because she's talking about encountering the folktales and she's feeling that immediate sense, which we can see right here, going straight back to the passage, an immediate sense of sometimes surprising. She's saying that they moved through her something like half remembered. And they rose up from town she had never visited, told by voices she has never heard, yet she immediately recognized them as her own.
So this perfectly demonstrates that personal sense of cultural familiarity. So now I think answer choice B is correct so far, but let's keep going. C. Others have tried to parody and flatten these stories into quaint curiosities, stripping them of the original power. But the true folktale endures in the mouths of those who carry it faithfully and in the hearts of the communities that remember it. So what I noticed about C is they're kind of talking about how so their culture actually survived. They survived through like word of mouth.
word of mouth, but it never talked about any of the feelings that she felt or any sense
of cultural familiarity. Answer to C is not going to be correct. D. These tales are ancient,
far older than any written version could capture. Traced carefully, they carry within them the
sentiment of centuries, evidence of long migrations and of histories seldom recorded elsewhere.
So now again we're getting some historical context, but they never talked about her personal
sense of cultural familiarity. So it's not going to be answer choice D and the answer should be answer
choice B. Let's check if that's correct. And answer choice B is the correct answer.
