Let's talk about the SAT reading section. First, let's go over some core reading rules that apply
to all of the reading section. Number one, and arguably the most important, every correct answer
is directly supported by the passage. Rule number two, always find line evidence for your answers.
Number three, if there are names, dates, and weird details, ignore them or abbreviate them
unless the question asks. For example, if you see a very long name, for example, Bartholomew Holmes,
you can just abbreviate their names to BH. That way you don't have to read out the full name every
single time. Number four, if two answers say the exact same thing, both of them are wrong. Number
five, simplify and paraphrase the passage as often as you need, even if that means after each sentence
you read. Number six, highlight what is important as you're reading. Next, what I want to emphasize
is exactly what rule number one entails. And we call this the direct support rule. If it isn't the
text, it isn't the answer. But the meaning of in the text has two different forms. So there are two types of correct answers. Type one, the paraphrase, and type two, evidence back conclusions. So the paraphrase is a direct paraphrase of a specific sentence in the passage. And usually this just restates exactly what happened or what was said in the passage, but just using different words or synonyms. Example of this is, for example, the text might say, the sun was blinding. The answer might say,
the light was intense. It's literally just a rephrasing of what was said in the passage. This is usually what you will find more commonly on the SAT for the easy to medium questions and sometimes the hard. The second type is what you see more often on the hard questions and is the evidence back conclusions. And what this is, is a theoretically true statement based only on the text evidence. What this means is it isn't written word for word, but it must be true if the text is true. So for example,
the text says, the text says, the sun was the only light source. An answer choice might say, without the sun, it would be dark. With that, this would be logically true as long as the text was true. Now what's really important for these types of questions and for the harder level questions is making a clear distinction between assumptions and evidence backed conclusions. And the reason why we say wrong answers add assumptions is to stop you from using outside information. Because on the SAT, for the reading section,
you do not need outside information. So now let's go over what this looks like. For assumptions, which is again, incorrect or wrong, adding facts from your own brain or common sense or even common facts that aren't mentioned in the passage. For example, if the passage mentions a dog, you might just assume that the dog is a man's best friend. But if the passage doesn't say that, you cannot conclude that. What would be correct is the evidence back conclusion. This is, for example, using the passage's own logic to reach the next
immediate step. For example, the passage says the dog only eats chicken. The dog will reject beef because it's just solely not chicken. The key thing to remember is an evidence back conclusion answer choice is still directly supported by the passage. And the rule of thumb is if you can't point to a specific sentence that proves your theoretical conclusion, it is an assumption rather than a correct answer. Next, let's go over the general steps to answering all reading questions. For every single reading question type, there is an
more specific steps that will make that question easier. But for now, let's go over some general steps. The first step, which remains the same for all question types is to always and always, always, you're going to hear me saying this a lot because it is incredibly important. Always read the question first. This will tell you number one, the question type. This you're going to become a lot more familiar with once you get through the entirety of the reading course modules. But it will tell you the question type. And there are different strategies for every single question type.
And number two, what to pay special attention to while answering the question. The next step would usually be to read the passage. And then number three, as you are reading the passage, paraphrase or simplify in your own head just a quick one to three seconds, every one to two sentences as you read. This helps with reading comprehension and turns passive reading into active reading. So you can actively understand and try to understand exactly what the passage is telling you. Number four, annotate and highlight
important sentences, phrases or words in the passage. This is typically going to be the author's claim, hypothesis, conclusion, any transition words, or just important words that you think are important. The fifth step is to make a prediction of the correct answer choice. The reason why there's an asterisk right here is because for some question types, it's often more helpful if you make a prediction before you go to the actual answer choices. And the last step, number six, is to eliminate incorrect answers and pick the correct answer.
Now let's talk about some common SAT traps. The first one we're going to talk about is what's called part right and part wrong. This is arguably one of the most common SAT traps that you'll see in almost every single question. Once you learn this concept, you will begin identifying and seeing these traps in almost every single SAT question. And this SAT trap is also the best method for eliminating incorrect answer choices. So let's talk about exactly what this is. The rule is, if a portion of an answer
choice is wrong, the entire answer choice is wrong, the entire answer choice is wrong. And even if it is only a singular word in the answer choice. So for example, if this is an answer choice, the author compares dot dot dot the rest of the answer choice. If for example, just the word compares is inaccurate, and instead the author argues or for example concludes in the passage, the entire answer choice is incorrect. Because comparing is completely different.
different from the word concluding. And again, we'll look at a ton of examples with all the practice questions that we do. And then you'll be able to see just how important the part right part wrong is. Next, I want to talk about extreme language. The SAT usually favors moderate academic and nuanced language. So if an answer choice uses absolute terms, it is usually a massive red flag. So here's are some red flag words. So words like always, never, entirely, uniquely, or impossible. But
important note to note with this is that just because an answer choice uses extreme language doesn't necessarily mean the answer is wrong. So this is what you should do. Whenever you do see some extreme language, go back to the passage and determine the level of certainty associated with the passage. So unless the passage uses that exact level of certainty, look for more accurate synonyms like tends to, suggests, rarely, or primarily. Next is recycling words. The SAT loves to use or recycle words from
the passage. So they use the right words, but with the wrong meaning. So College Board loves to take keywords or phrases directly from the passage and rearrange them to say something entirely different. So here's an example of the trap. You see keywords like photosynthesis in the answer and remember seeing it in paragraph two. So you just click the answer choice. Here's the fix. Always check the relationship between the words. Is the subject of the sentence actually the one performing the action described? Often these choices flip
the cause and effect relationship. So just be really careful to make sure you're not picking
an answer choice that's only recycling words but just with the wrong meaning. The next trap is
reverse relationships. This is a classic trap especially in the science and history passages.
The answer choices will often discuss the correct two variables but for example swap their connection.
So for example if the passage says increasing vitamin D leads to better bone density, the trap
answer might say better bone density leads to a higher intake of vitamin D which is reversed from the
actual passage. So the fix is to double check the direction of the arrow. Does A cause B or does B
cause A? The next SAT trap is too broad or too narrow and this usually appears in the main idea or the
summary questions. So what do I mean by this? By too broad the answer choice covers a massive topic
for example the history of chemistry when the passage was only about one specific experiment. But more
often than not they'd like to use answer choices that are too narrow or too extreme. So the answer choice
might be a hundred percent accurate with the passage but it's only about one small detail in for example
paragraph three. What it might do is fail to summarize the entire passage which for these question types
usually it's asking about the main idea not just one specific detail. So the fix is for summary questions the right answer must cover the entire quote story arc of the whole text.
And now this is incredibly important and paying a crucial attention to this literally one tip usually saves students 10 to 50 points on every single SAT. Once I show you this tip it might seem like a no duh I should know this. But this is still incredibly important as students often overlook this incredibly crucial step. And that is to always refer to the exact wording of every question and always read the full question. Never skim the question.
Never skim the question. This is because the SAT loves to throw a curveball and change one word that totally changes what the question is asking. For example the SAT loves to interchange the words support and weaken which are literally antonyms. And they also love to insert the word not before the question which again flips the entire question entirely. Now these are all the question types that the SAT tests for the reading section. An important note is that you don't need to memorize the exact names. These are just here for organized
purposes. But here are the general ideas. We're going to cover information ideas and craft and
structure. These are how the SAT categorizes all the questions on the reading section. And these
subtopics fall into each topic. So let's go through them just really quickly. We're going to cover
command of evidence textual, command of evidence quantitative, central ideas and details, and
inferences under the information and ideas questions. Second part, we're going to be
covering craft and structure questions, which involve words and context, text structure and
purpose and cross text connections. So just some final tips. Don't just look for what is right, but also look for what is wrong. You should be asking yourself for every single answer choice. Could I defend this answer using the passage? And what's really important is that you shift your mindset from does this sound right, which is really intuition based to can I prove this is right, which is evidence based. And again, you do not need to memorize the exact names, nor do you really need to study this exact slide.
Thank you.
