Use the special right triangle method.

Speaker A: Let's talk about special right triangles. The first triangle that we want to cover is a 45-45-90 isosceles right triangle. So this 45-45-90 refers to the angle measures of said triangle. So if a right triangle has two 45-degree angles, it is a special right triangle. This means that they have special properties and that two of the legs are exactly equal, making it an isosceles right triangle. And as a result as well, these side ratios are completely predictable. So mathematically, this is the ratio that you should memorize for a 45-45-90-degree triangle. The side ratio to memorize is x, x, x times root 2. This means that if each leg has a length of x, then the hypotenuse is simply x times root 2. But going backwards, if we know that the hypotenuse is x, we know that the difference between the hypotenuse to the legs is simply a ratio of square root 2. So you have to divide x by square root of 2 to find the length of each leg. So what does this actually look like? Well, let's say that we are given a right triangle that has two 45-degree angles. So we know that this is a special right triangle, specifically a 45-45-90-degree triangle. So if the question tells us that one leg is equal to 7 and it asks us to find the other leg and hypotenuse, how do we do it? So because we know this is a special right triangle, we know that the rule to memorize is x, x, x root 2. So the second leg is simply equal to the same thing because it is x and x. So the second leg is just equal to 7. So if one of these is 7, the other one is also equal to 7. And lastly, the hypotenuse is simply equal to the leg times root 2. So this leg would be 7 √2. The second special right triangle that you need to know is a 30-60-90 triangle. So if we are given a right triangle that has the angles of 30 degrees, 60 degrees, and 90 degrees, the sides always follow a fixed ratio, similar to 45-45-90-degree triangles, except in this case the ratio is different. But memorizing this saves time and avoids you having to do the Pythagorean theorem entirely because it's much easier. This should also be on your formula chart so you you don't have to memorize it, but memorizing it makes your process go much quicker. So mathematically, you want to memorize this ratio: the shortest side, so the side opposite of 30 degrees, is x. Now the side opposite of 60 degrees, so the second largest side, is x√3. And lastly, the side opposite of the 90-degree, the hypotenuse, is 2x. So we have x, x√3, 2x. As you can see here, so the easiest way to memorize where each of these ratios go is to think about it in terms of the angle measurements. So x is the smallest one, so it goes corresponding with the smallest angle. x√3 is the second smallest one, so it corresponds with 60 degrees. And lastly, 2a or 2x is the largest ratio, so that goes opposite of the 90-degree. Now conceptually, there are 3 key relationships. This means that the hypotenuse is always double of the shortest side given that we have a 30-60-90 triangle. Next, the medium leg, the side opposite of the 60-degree angle, is the shortest side times root 3. And lastly, the shortest side is always opposite of the smallest angle, that's 30 degrees. So let's practice this example. Let's say that we are given a triangle that has a hypotenuse of 14. We are asked to find the side opposite of the 30-degree angle. So let's solve this question. Well, we know that the hypotenuse is just 2x, with x being the length of the shortest side. So since the hypotenuse is 2a and the shortest side, the side opposite of the 30-degree angle, is x, then the length of the shortest side is just 14 divided by 2, which gives us 7. Something that this question isn't asking for but it's good for us to know is that we know that the side opposite of the 60-degree would just be equal to 7 root 3 because all it is is x root 3. Now both of these are given to you on the formula chart, so it's better for you to understand it. You don't need to memorize it. However, eventually you'll do it so many times that becomes a part of your memory. So let's practice. In the triangle shown, what is the value of x? Well, we notice here how this is a right triangle with a 45-degree and another 45-degree. So therefore, this triangle is a 45-45-90 90 special right triangle. So since x is just one of the legs and we know one of the other legs, we know this ratio is x, x, x root 2. So the value of the other leg is just 7. Let's practice another question. In the right triangle shown above, what is the length of JK? So JK is right here, and we know JK is the side opposite of the smallest angle. Therefore, this corresponding side is also the smallest side length or the shortest side length. So what is the relationship between the hypotenuse and the smallest side length? Well, we know that the ratio of a 30-60-90 triangle is simply x, x√3, and 2x. So therefore, the relationship between these two is simply half. So 14 divided by 2 equals 7. Let's practice a hard question. A triangle with angle measure 30, 60, 90 has a perimeter of 12 plus 4 root 3. What is the length of the longest side of the triangle? So in this question, we're dealing with a 30-60-90 special right triangle. So we know that all the lengths must follow this ratio: x x√3, and 2x. So the perimeter of this triangle would simply be all of these added together, and then we can solve for what x equals. And lastly, solve for actually what the question asking for, the longest side, which is 2x. So we know that x x√3 2x 12 4√3. So 3x x√3 12 4√3. Now we can set the 3x and 12 equal to each other to solve for x, and then we can set these two equal to each other to solve for x as well. So 3x 12 and x√3 4√3. Therefore, x 4. And also on this side, we also find that x 4. Perfect. So this is kind of double-checking. Now we know that x 4. So the question asks, what is the length of this longest side of the triangle? So the longest side is 2x. So 2 × 4 8. Let's practice another hard question. A square is inscribed in a circle. So a square is inscribed inside of a circle. The radius of the circle is 5 root 2 inches. What is the side length in inches of the square? Okay, so it tells us the radius is 5 root 2. So from the center of the circle all the way to the edge, we know that it is 5 root 2. So the question asks us, what is the side length in inches of the square? So if we were to draw out the diameters so to extend all the way through, we would know that this diameter is simply twice the radius. So the diameter equals 10 root 2. Now if we do cut this in half, what do we know about these two triangles that end up being formed? Well, if you cut a square perfectly in half along the diagonal, we actually know that these two angles must be 45-degree angles because we split the diagonals perfectly in half. So we split 90 degrees in half. Therefore, this triangle right here follows a a 45-45-90 special right triangle, and the ratio therefore is x, x, x root 2. So we know the relationship between the longest side, the hypotenuse, and the leg is simply a difference of root 2. So if x root 2 is equal to 10 root 2, because that's the diameter, and we divide both sides by root 2, we get that x equals 10. Therefore, the length of the legs is 10. Let's practice another hard question. Triangle ABC is similar to triangle DEF where A corresponds to D and C corresponds to F. Angles C and F are right angles. If tangent of A equals root 13 and DF equals 80, what is the length of DE? Okay, so let's draw two triangles and then label them and then try to solve this question. So we know that ABC is similar to DEF. We also know that A corresponds to D, C corresponds to F, and C and F are right angles. So let's draw the right angles in first. We know that C and F are the right angles, and then let's label in the rest. So A corresponds to D, and then C corresponds to F. We already know that. Okay, so let's draw in the last bit is B and E. And we are being told that tangent of A equals to root 13. So what is tangent again? Tangent equals opposite over adjacent, so it equals CB over AC. So tangent of angle A equals CB over AC, and this equals to root 3. Well, in what scenario would this be equal to root 3? Let's think about it. Doesn't root 3 seem kind of familiar with something we know? We know that in a 30-60-90 triangle that the ratio is x, x root 3, and 2x. So if we were to label these and opposite over adjacent were to equal root 3, what would these specific side lengths equal to? CB could be x root 3, and then AC could be x. That way, taking x root 3 divided by x, or opposite over adjacent, we get root 3. So therefore, this triangle is a special right triangle, specifically a 30-60-90 special right triangle. Therefore, we know that the longest side must be 2x. So this question tells us that DF equals 80. So let's plug that in. DF equals 80. It asks us, what is the length of DE? So we know the relationship between DF and FE because we are told that these two are similar. We know that D EF is also a special right triangle, a 30-60-90 special right triangle. So to go from DF to get to DE, all we need to do is multiply by 2. Therefore, DE equals 160 because it is 2x. Let's practice this hard question. The perimeter of an equilateral triangle is 18 root 3 centimeters. The 3 vertices of the triangle lie on a circle. What is the radius of the circle in centimeters? Okay, so to do this question, let's start by drawing it out so it makes more sense. So let's draw this equilateral triangle. Well, what do we know about equilateral triangles? We know that all sides of an equilateral triangle are the same. So 3 times s would give us the perimeter because this is simply adding together all 3 sides, and we know that this equals 18 root 3. So therefore, each side equals 6 root 3 centimeters. So each side is 6 root 3. Now the question tells us that all 3 vertices of the triangle lie on a circle. So that means that this triangle is inscribed inside of a circle. And the question is asking us, what is the radius of the circle? So let's just say that the midpoint of this circle is M, and let's draw from M to the edge of the circle as the radius. Now, how can we figure out this question? Well, if we are drawing from M all the way until the edge of the circle, we can draw multiple ways. We can draw like this. We can also draw it like this. Now, which one of these could actually help us figure out what M is equal to? Let's think about it. Well, obviously, if we use this line right here, we have nothing to go off of. There's no way for us to just magically pull this out of the air. If we draw M from the middle all the way to the vertices of the triangle, we actually notice that we are simply splitting this angle in half. So we're creating two 30-degree angles on both sides. Now we have a 30-degree angle right here. Is there any way for us to create a special right triangle? Yes, there is. If you draw a line down from M to the middle of this side right here, we actually create ourselves a special right triangle because right here it is perpendicular, and right here is 60 degrees. So we have a 30-60-90 special right triangle. Now, the question is asking us for the radius. Well, all we need is one of these side lengths, and then we can find the radius. Well, we don't know this side length nor this side length, but we do know is 2 times this side length because that is the side of one of the equilateral triangles. So in order to find one of these sides right here, all we need to do is divide this side length by 2. So the side length of this small triangle is equal to 3√3. Now remember, this is the side length that corresponds to the angle of 60. And remember, the ratio is x, x√3, 2x. So what is the value of x? Because x√3 is equal to 3√3, we know that x is equal to 3. So this is 3, this one is x√3, and now the hypotenuse of the triangle, also known as the radius of the circle, must be 2x. So the radius equals 6.
