Let's talk about transitions. How do we know when we're dealing with the transition problem type?
Well, usually we'll see this question stem. Which choice completes the text with the most
logical transition? When we see the words logical transition, it basically tells us in the question
stem that we're dealing with a transition problem. Now, there are many different types of transitions.
For example, we have addition, contrast, cause and effect, and sequence. And there are many words
under these broader themes that convey the same meaning. The important thing is to not memorize
these words, but to understand that there are many different words that serve the same purpose.
For example, if we want to show contrast, however, on the other hand, and nevertheless, can all be used
to show that type of theme. Now, let's go into the actual strategy on how to solve these transition
problems. First, we want to read the entire passage. This is because we need the entire
context. So we can understand what the best transition to put in the blank would be.
Then we summarize the idea before the blank and the idea after the blank. This is to get a more in-depth
understanding on what the idea before the blank is, what the idea after the blank is, and to see whether
those ideas have similarities or differences or something else and how the transition word matches those
ideas. Step three is to put your own word in the blank, and then find a synonym
that matches with that own word. Or you can plug each transition into the sentence. Both work. Also, remember to eliminate similar answer choices.
Many wrong answer choices differ only slightly. This means that many of the wrong answer choices are synonyms.
So if you had two answer choices, maybe one said addition and the other one said also, those are probably both wrong.
Now, let's go ahead and try to apply this knowledge on a practice problem. First, what I'm going to do is I'm going to read the entire passage. That's step one.
That's step one. Blue Ration, an award-winning science fiction story by Kenyan author Nnedi Osi, takes place in a near future version of Nairobi where drinkable water is a scarce resource that is owned and distributed exclusively by private corporations.
Blank citizens must purchase their daily water allowance using a digital currency called blue credits.
So now that I've read this passage and I kind of understand what's going on, let me summarize what the idea before and after the blank is.
Before the blank, the idea is that drinkable water is a scarce resource.
The idea after the blank is that the citizens, because drinkable water is a scarce resource, they must purchase daily water using money.
In this case, it's a digital currency.
So these two ideas before and after, they support each other.
So in this blank, I'm looking for a transition that supports the first paragraph or supports the first idea with the second idea.
So I'm thinking something like because of this.
